--- SOURCE: 大鳄龟_baidu.txt ---
大鳄龟属爬行动物
真鳄龟（学名：Macrochelys temminckii）是鳄龟科、大鳄龟属爬行动物，又名大鳄龟、鳄鱼咬龟、鳄甲龟、鳄龟； 其体大；嘴巴前端的上下颌呈钩状；背甲盾片呈棕褐色，背甲的边缘有许多像锯齿状的突起；眼睛长在口的两侧，小而有神；头和颈上有许多肉突；舌上长有一个鲜红色且分叉的蠕虫状的肉突，通过中间的圆形肌肉与舌头相连；两端能够自由伸缩活动；尾细长，坚硬；头和脚不能缩入壳内。 真鳄龟是集龟和鳄鱼于一身的龟类，其长相酷似鳄鱼，但它保持了原始龟的特征，故名。
真鳄龟主要分布在美国的密西西比河流域，阿拉巴马州的南方，乔治亚和佛罗里达的沼泽地区， 多栖息于河流、湖泊、池塘及沼泽中，喜伏于水中的泥沙、灌木、杂草中。真鳄龟漂浮在水中时，借助其背甲上保护色——像一块烂木头漂浮在水中，不易被发现。真鳄龟捕食本领十分出众，以鱼类、水鸟、螺、虾、水蛇等为食。雌龟在繁殖季节才会爬上岸边，选择适合的地方产卵，每次可产30-120枚卵。
因大量捕捉，目前真鳄龟正濒临灭绝， 于1996年被《世界自然保护联盟濒危物种红色名录》评定为易危（VU）。
中文名
真鳄龟
拉丁学名
Macrochelys temminckii
别 名
大鳄龟、鳄鱼咬龟、鳄甲龟、鳄龟
外文名
Alligator snapping turtle
界
动物界
门
脊索动物门
纲
爬行纲
目
龟鳖目
科
鳄龟科
属
大鳄龟属
种
真鳄龟
亚 门
脊椎动物亚门
亚 纲
双孔亚纲
亚 种
无
命名者及年代
Troost in Harlan，1835
保护级别
（IUCN 1996年 ver 2.3）——易危（VU）
形态特征
外表特征背甲
外表特征缘盾
外表特征-侧脸
正脸红舌
外表特征
真鳄龟保持了原始龟的特征，嘴巴、背甲盾片、红舌都很奇特。外形酷似鳄鱼，头呈三角形，较大，最宽处约为背甲宽度的一半；嘴巴前端的上下颌呈钩状，似老鹰嘴一般，锋利无比，可咬断人的手指；口列成“∧”形，张开其大。真鳄龟体大，背甲长达约31英寸，体重可达200磅。背甲盾片呈棕褐色，13块盾片就像13座小山连绵起伏，呈纵横3行排列，背甲的边缘有许多像锯齿状的突起，眼睛长在口的两侧，小而有神，头和颈上有许多肉突。腹甲较小，呈“十”宇形。它的舌上长有一个鲜红色且分叉的蠕虫状的肉突，通过中间的圆形肌肉与舌头相连。两端能够自由伸缩活动。尾又细又长，长度约为背甲长的0.8倍（稚龟尾更长，为1.5倍以上），坚硬得像钢鞭一般，尾近基部生有3纵列小丘状角质突起。其颈不像蛇鳄龟那样长，但亦较粗且生有许多肉质突疣。四肢较粗壮，趾间均生有蹼，利于游泳爬行。与其它龟不同的是它的头和脚不能缩入壳内。
生活习性
真鳄龟
真鳄龟通常生活在河流、湖泊、池塘及沼泽中，它们很少到陆地上活动，只有在繁殖季节，雌龟才会爬上岸，选择适合的地方产卵。喜弱光畏强光，喜静怕惊扰，喜温惧寒，喜群聚。
在自然界，捕食鱼、蛙、蛇、蜗牛、虫类、蛤、虾、水鸟及各种水草；人工饲养下则吃牛肉、猪肉、鱼虾、家畜内脏等，但最适合的饲料为专用况性或浮性配合饲料。摄食时间多为光线较弱时，夜间亦捕食。它们还会吃下包括其他龟在内的任何能捕捉到并吞得下去的东西。真鳄龟喜欢白天在水中，伏在木头或石块上，有时也漂浮在水面有时四腿朝上，背甲朝下，头却朝上露出水面。当漂浮在水中时，借助其背甲上保护色――像一块烂木头漂浮在水中，很不容易被发现。真鳄龟的舌头上有一个独无二的粉红色的结构，活像条蠕虫。它们会静静地躺在水底，张大嘴巴，抖动起“鱼饵”来吸引猎物。真鳄龟的捕食本领十分出众，每当发现水边有饮水的小动物时，真鳄龟就会突然甩起尾巴，将猎物打晕，然后拖入水中慢慢享用。
真鳄龟的生长在幼体阶段虽不及拟鳄龟快，但在中期生长亦较快在自然界中发现其最大个体重达80千克（体长66厘米）；在温室高密度放养时，投喂蛋白质含量为45%的饲料，水温26-27℃的真鳄龟稚龟（27.2克/只）平均日增重率为0995%，每只平均日增重可达0.8克左右，当体重达3990克以上时，每只平均日增重可达24克以上。
分布范围
真鳄龟主要分布于美国的密西西比河流域，主要分布于美国堪萨斯州、艾奥瓦州和伊利诺伊州的密西西比山谷南部、乔治亚州东南部沿岸平原及佛罗里达州北部至得克萨斯州东部。1998年中国开始少量引进。
真鳄龟原产地分布图
繁殖方式
在美国分布于自然界里的真鳄龟一般在2-5月份交配，产卵期在4-7月份，产卵地点离水较远，有的在50米以外。每次可产30-120枚卵，卵呈球形，白色，直径30-51毫米，具坚硬圆滑的蛋壳，自然孵化期100-140天。刚孵化出来的幼龟约4.3厘米，它的尾巴比身体要长。幼龟的生长速度十分惊人，一年便可长到2千克，3年后，幼龟便开始性成熟。
近种区别
真鳄龟
拟鳄龟
真鳄龟体大，背甲长达约78厘米
一般成年个体背甲长50厘米左右
背甲盾片呈棕褐色，13块盾片就像13座小山连绵起伏，呈纵横3行排列，背甲的边缘有许多像锯齿状的突起，眼睛长在口的两侧，小而有神，头和颈上有许多肉突
背甲呈圆形或近圆形，背部边缘整齐，呈黑褐色、黄褐色、浅褐色或棕灰色。腹部呈浅白色、淡黄色或微棕色，腹甲较薄占整个腹部的比例较小
真鳄龟
拟鳄龟
养殖技术
养池准备
龟池与加温保温
为了获得较高的养殖效益，无论是将仔龟培育到幼龟，还是把幼龟养殖到成龟，都应采取加温养殖方式，以下介绍几种可取的养殖方法，应建造的龟池及其加温办法，以维持最佳养龟水温在27-30℃。
温室水泥龟池：温室的周围墙壁、顶棚、池底都应根据当地气候条件，选用砖石水泥砂浆及珍珠岩、禇石、泡沫厚板材、万通板、双层无滴膜、稻谷谷壳灰以及石棉、双层玻璃等保温材料，有杋地配合、填充、砌建和组合起来，使温室和龟池具有良好的保温性能；对温室的水体、空气的加热，可充分利用太阳能、地热、电、煤、油、沼气及工业余热和远红外技术，达到高效、绿色供热。养龟池应为水泥砖砌，池底、池壁均填充保温材料，较冷地区的池底以下最好加装管内有温热水流动的日丰管，以确保水底水温要求。每个龟池的面积宜在几平方米至20平方米，池高50-70厘米，龟池的面积或池高，培育幼龟宜小些、矮些，培育成龟的宜大且高些。池形以椭圆形为好，方形、长方形的池角、底角线均需抹光滑无毛疵，在池角上缘，需加盖防逃盖板。池底应向排水口方向有3-4%的倾斜度，排水口设在池底最低处并加设防逃网；池水中应每隔50厘米左右吊装一列“吊网”，吊网间距30-40厘米，吊网材料为网目0.5-1.5厘米的聚乙烯网片。为提高温室利用率，可把龟池建为2-3层的多层龟池。无论是单层还是多层龟池的上缘，均需有防逃结构(装置所有进水、排水、加热、供水等管道、闸阀均须安全可靠，便于操作管理。如进水口在池水中，其口需加设防逃网，防止龟钻入管道内。
温室的光照与通气及尾水处理：温室顶如釆用非透光材料建造时需开设透光、保温的天窗；墙壁设有通气窗机并应种养吊兰、辣蓼等，以净化环境。温室的排水需汇集于废水处理池（可在室外建），进行统一消毒及净化处理（可应用臭氧及光合细菌、水生植物等处理），也可采用人工湿地和“生物包”等净水技术，循环再利用。
水源要求
养龟的水源水质应符合国家《Y5051-2001无公害食品淡水养殖用水水质》标准，要求水量充足。为实现健康养殖，还应对养龟用水做消毒杀菌处理。其方法首选是利用“光子臭氧发生器”，对水源进行广谱、高效、快速、无残留的消毒灭菌。也可采用绿色药物或微生态制剂神克隆菌（噬菌蛭弧菌等）、蜡质芽孢杆菌、玉垒菌及枯草芽孢杆菌等制剂和光合细菌来处理、改善水质。
仔龟培育
稚龟的挑选
挑选时间：应选在4月下旬至10月上旬，此期间温度适宜，龟活动正常，利于挑选；否则应对待选的龟苗（稚龟）缓慢升温，使其处于正常活动的气。
挑选方法：首先应了解凊楚稚龟的来源、是否已检疫、孵出后的时间、饲养跨理等情冼及其亲龟状况。随后，应细心挑选全身完整无损、无病害双眼有神、翻身迅速有力、全身不胂胀、口鼻外角缘无黏液和泡沫状黏液，腹甲中部的脐眼已无有卵黄囊，脐眼平整、色泽与周边腹甲相近且趾爪宄整的那些稚龟。再后，把这些稚龟放入温水浅水中（6-10厘米深），进而再选留那些很快沉入水底的；而浮在水面不下沉的，不宜初选留作龟苗。最后，还应再对初步入选的稚龟筛选一次，即选留个体较大、健壮的，体重在10克以下的仍不宜留作养殖龟苗，但可做观赏宠物。
稚龟的放养
放养前的准备工作：对养龟设备认真检查，龟池彻底消毒后方可使用。相宜的适口鲜活饵料（如孑孓、红虫等）、浮性颗粒饲料、零星工具的备齐及消毒，绿色药物等的进购。
放养：①稚龟消毒可选用800克/立方米水体的“龟体宝”或20克/立方米水体的“苗种浸泡剂”分别药浴30分钟、5-8分钟。也可用1%的食盐水浸浴5-8分钟。②稚龟放养依养殖条件而定，一般可按70-80只/平方米放养，如果条件好的可按170只/平方米放养，放养稚龟的池水不宜过深，应在6-8厘米。
驯食
较大规模养殖由于鲜活饵料供应有一定困难，可采取投喂浮性颗粒饲料，在经驯食后，稚龟亦会摄食，并有利于观察龟吃食状况，不仅为正确调整日投饵率提供侬据，也减轻饲料浪费和水体污染，应提倡采用。
投喂饲料
日投饵率：浮性全价配合颗粒饲料每日总投饵量约是全部稚龟总重的1-2%，即曰投饵率1-2%；鲜活饵料则应增加到5-10%，但原则是在投喂之后半小时内吃完或基本无剩饵。应根据水温、龟的吃食状况等及时调整。
日投喂次数：一般每天于8:00右和6:0-17:00分两次投喂，有条件的可在22:00前后再追喂一次，更有利于椎龟的生长。
投饵方式：无论是鲜活饵料还是浮性颗粒饲料，都应多点均匀投喂，特别是在高密度吊网养殖池中，更须注意多点撒投，不可只集中在一个或几个投饵点（台）。
水质调节
在高密度养殖条件下，为减轻应激反应，防止疾病产生，仍须注重养池水的水质调节，可采取以下一些方式。
向水中均匀泼泗微生态制剂光合细菌菌液，首次泼洒50克/立方米水体，以后每6-12天按16克/立方米水体泼施；或EM原露首次用12克/方米水体泼施，共后每10-15天按6克/立方米水体使用一次原露或按8-15克/立疔米水体使用神克隆菌（主要为噬菌蛭弧菌）以及玉垒菌、腊质芽孢杆菌等制剂。这些制剂不仅能抑制或杀灭、裂解水中有害细菌，而且可净化水质，减少氨氮、硫化氢等有害物质，同时无残留，是大力推广应用的生态制剂。
适时排出旧池水，灌注新温水，维持水温27-30℃。
采取虹吸法或捞除法，及时清除池底或水面的污物。
培植密度适宜的水生植物，浮萍、水葫芦、水花生、辣蓼、水萬蒲等有益于净化水质，可根据池底泥砂的有无及池面光照等情况枓应选择培植于龟池中，但水生植物的面积不可超过养龟水面的1/3过多时，应及时疏稀。
水的pH值为7以下（呈弱酸性），可泼洒20克/立方米水体的生石灰水。
疏稀
随着稚龟的不断生长，应逐级稀养，当规格长到30-40克/只时如果条件好的应稀疏至100只/平方米左右；当规格长到40-50克/只时，应疏稀至40-50只/平方米。
同级饲养
为了促进生长和提高成活率，同池放养的规格应当相近，不可大小规格同时放养在一个池子里。
加强饲养管理
坚持每天早、午、晚“三巡查”，认真观察龟的动态、吃食、排粪；测量气、水温度，检查供水供热系统运转状况，如发现有趴在吊网水上的龟，应及时拿出，检查诊断，及时治疗；定期更换温室门外的消毒水，提高防疫效果。观测温室湿度，通过通风排气等方式，维持湿度70-80%。
病害防治
尽管真鳄龟有很强的抗病力，但由于孵岀后对仔龟的管理、收集运输、高密度放养、环境及食饵变化等诸多不利因素的干扰、影响所造成的应激反应，使其抗病力下降，导致某些疾病害的产生，因此仍需本着“以防为主，防治并重”的原则，切实搞好真鳄龟养殖的防疫，提高健康养殖水平。
成龟养殖
放养前的准备
同稚、仔龟放养。
放养
幼龟消毒：选用“龟体宝”或1克/立方米水体的聚维酮碘等对幼龟浸泡消毒。
放养密度：20~30只/平方米。
投喂饲料
应投喂以浮性颗粒饲料为主的专用配合饲料，规格在50-70克/只的幼龟，饲料粒径为2毫米，以后逐渐增大到3毫米、4毫米；日投饵率为1.2%左右，投饲量应根据龟的吃食状况、水温等情况具体的情确定；日投喂两次（7:00-8:00、17:00-18:00）；投喂方式宜采用池中吊网养龟仍应多点撒投在吊网之间，如采取无吊网、有遮挡板的养龟方式，则应在遮板四周做多点定位投喂。
饲养管理
幼龟投放后，直到养成商品龟，养殖水深应增大到10-30厘米以上；养殖密度由初放时的20-30只/平方米，逐渐稀到10-20只/平方米。
由于随着真鳄龟个体增大，在排放旧池水时，尤其是在干池时其相互撕咬更为严重。因此，在对龟池换水时，必须注意预防龟的咬伤，切忌把原池水全部放下，再灌注新水。如管理人员进入龟池操作，注意防范被龟咬伤。
保护现状
保护级别：列入《世界自然保护联盟濒危物种红色名录》（IUCN 1996年 ver 2.3）——易危（VU）。
种群现状：由于过度捕捉和贩卖，真鳄龟正濒临灭绝。世界野生生物联盟报告显示：在濒于绝种的世界珍稀生物排名中，真鳄龟名列第六位。北美真鳄龟早已成为世界濒危野生动物保护红皮书名录中的重要成员之一。
重点管理
2023年1月1日起，被列入重点管理外来入侵物种名录。

--- SOURCE: 大鳄龟_en_wiki.txt ---
Alligator snapping turtle
Species of turtle
This article may contain an excessive number of citations. Please help improve it by removing low-quality or irrelevant citations or redistributing those citations so there are fewer than four in a row.(March 2026) (Learn how and when to remove this message)
Alligator snapping turtle
Conservation status
Endangered (IUCN 3.1)
CITES Appendix II
Scientific classification
Kingdom: Animalia
Phylum: Chordata
Class: Reptilia
Order: Testudines
Suborder: Cryptodira
Family: Chelydridae
Genus: Macrochelys
Species: M. temminckii
Binomial name
Macrochelys temminckii
(Troost, 1835)
Synonyms
Testudo planitia
Gmelin, 1789
(nomen suppressum)
Chersine planitia
— Merrem, 1820
Chelonura temminckii
Troost in Harlan, 1835
(nomen conservandum)
Emysaurus temminckii
— A.M.C. Duméril and Bibron in A.M.C. Duméril & A.H.A. Duméril, 1851
Macroclemys temminckii
— Gray, 1846
Cheldyra temminckii
— Agassiz, 1857
Gypochelys temminckii
— Agassiz, 1857
Macroclemmys temminckii
— Strauch, 1862
Macroclemys temmincki
— Pritchard, 1967
The alligator snapping turtle (Macrochelys temminckii) is a large species of turtle in the familyChelydridae. They are the largest freshwater turtle in North America. The species is endemic to freshwater habitats in the United States. M. temminckii is one of the heaviest living freshwater turtles in the world. It is often associated with, but not closely related to, the common snapping turtle, which is in the genus Chelydra. The specific epithettemminckii is in honor of Dutch zoologistCoenraad Jacob Temminck.
Taxonomy
Although it was once believed that only one extant species exists in the genus Macrochelys, recent studies have shown that there are two species, the other being the Suwannee snapping turtle (M. suwanniensis) of the Suwannee River. The most recent common ancestor (MRCA) of the two species lived approximately 3.2 to 8.9 million years ago, during the late Miocene to late Pliocene. A third species, the Apalachicola snapping turtle (M. apalachicolae), has been proposed, but is generally not recognized.
The alligator snapping turtle is given its common name because of its immensely powerful jaws and distinct ridges on its shell that are similar in appearance to the rough, ridged skin of an alligator. It is also slightly less commonly known as "the loggerhead snapper" (not to be confused with the loggerhead sea turtle or loggerhead musk turtle).
Distribution and habitat
The alligator snapping turtle is found primarily in freshwaters of the southeastern United States. It is found from the Florida Panhandle west to East Texas, north to southeastern Kansas, Missouri, southeastern Iowa, western Illinois, southern Indiana, west Michigan western Kentucky, Louisiana, and western Tennessee.
Macrochelys temminckii often utilize core sites, characterized by specific microhabitat features such as an abundance of structural cover such as cut banks, root balls, and submerged trees and dense canopy cover. Typically, only nesting females venture onto open land.
They are generally found only in bodies of water that flow into the Gulf of Mexico and usually do not occur in isolated wetlands or ponds. A study found that the turtles prefer places with canopy cover, overhanging trees, shrubs, dead submerged trees, and beaver dens. This species utilizes core sites within these habitats, and females tend to have larger movement patterns than males. The average home range for an individual is 750 m (2,460 ft). Females have larger home ranges than males.
Description
The alligator snapping turtle is characterized by a large, heavy head, and a long, thick shell with three dorsal ridges of large scales (osteoderms), giving it an appearance reminiscent of the armoured ankylosaurs. It can be immediately distinguished from the common snapping turtle by the three distinct rows of spikes and raised plates on the carapace, whereas the common snapping turtle has a smoother carapace. The spikes on the carapace gradually flatten out as the turtle ages. M. temminckii is a solid gray, brown, black, or olive-green in color, and often covered with algae. It has radiating yellow patterns around the eyes, serving to break up the outline of the eyes to keep the turtle camouflaged. The eyes are also surrounded by a star-shaped arrangement of fleshy, filamentous "eyelashes".
Skeleton, at the Museum of Osteology.
Using its vermiform appendage to lure prey (aggressive mimicry).
Though not verified, a 183 kg (403 lb) alligator snapping turtle was found in Kansas in 1937, but the largest verifiable one is debatable. One weighed at the Shedd Aquarium in Chicago was a 16-year resident giant alligator snapper weighing 113 kg (249 lb), sent to the Tennessee Aquarium as part of a breeding loan in 1999, where it subsequently died. Another weighing 107 kg (236 lb) was housed at the Brookfield Zoo in suburban Chicago. Another large turtle reportedly weighed 135 kg (298 lb). The species generally does not grow quite that large. Breeding maturity is attained around 8 kg (18 lb), when the straight carapace length is around 33 cm (13 in), but then the species continues to grow throughout life. Excluding exceptionally large specimens, adult alligator snapping turtles generally range in carapace length from 35 to 80.8 cm (13.8 to 31.8 in) and weigh from 8.4 to 80 kg (19 to 176 lb). Males are typically larger than females. 88 adult alligator snapping turtles averaged 21.05 kg (46.4 lb), 92 averaged 19.72 kg (43.5 lb), and 249 averaged 13.5 kg (30 lb). Usually very old males comprise the specimens that weigh in excess of 45 kg (99 lb) per most population studies. Among extant freshwater turtles, only the little-known giant softshell turtles of the genera Chitra, Rafetus, and Pelochelys, native to Asia, reach comparable sizes.
In mature specimens, those with a straight carapace length over 30 cm (12 in), males and females can be differentiated by the position of the cloaca from the carapace, and by the thickness of the base of the tail. A mature male's cloaca extends beyond the carapace edge, a female's is placed exactly on the edge if not nearer to the plastron. The base of the tail of the male is also thicker as compared to that of the female because of the hidden reproductive organs.
The inside of the turtle's mouth is camouflaged, and it possesses a vermiform (worm-shaped) appendage on the tip of its tongue used to lure fish, a form of aggressive mimicry. With its unique head morphology, research suggests that this species has strong natural selection for bite performance, which can directly or indirectly affect fitness. A study conducted in 2023 found that this turtle's bite force can range between 8.2 and 1872 Newtons of force. This bite force is heavily dependent on size. Research suggests that M.temminckii thermoregulates by altering its depth in the water column, because this species is rarely seen basking.
This turtle must be handled with extreme care and considered potentially dangerous. This species can bite through the handle of a broom and in rare cases human fingers have been cleanly bitten off by the species. No human deaths have been reported to have been caused by the alligator snapping turtle.
Illustration from Holbrook's North American Herpetology, 1842
With a carpet of algae on the carapace
Head of a young
Head of an adult
Diet
Juvenile preying on a fish
The alligator snapping turtle is an opportunistic feeder that is almost entirely carnivorous. It relies on both catching live food and scavenging dead organisms. In general, it will eat almost anything it can catch. Fishermen have glorified the species' ability to catch fish and to deplete fish populations, whereas in fact it largely targets any abundant and easily caught prey, and rarely has any extensive deleterious effect on fish populations. Its natural diet consists primarily of fish and fish carcasses, mollusks, carrion, and amphibians, but it is also known to eat snakes, snails, worms and other invertebrates, crayfish, insects, water birds, aquatic plants, other turtles and sometimes even small alligators. In one study conducted in Louisiana, 79.8% of the stomach contents of adult alligator snapping turtles was found to be composed of other turtles, although the resistance of shell and reptile-bone fragments to digestion may have led these fragments to remain longer in the digestive tract than other items. This species may also, on occasion, prey on aquatic rodents, including nutrias and muskrats or even snatch small to mid-sized other mammals, including squirrels, mice, Virginia opossums, raccoons, and Mexican long-nosed armadillos when they attempt to swim or come near the water's edge.
In the wild, alligator snapping turtles are also recorded eating a wide range of plant matter such as seeds, tubers, stalks, American persimmons, wild grape, water hickory, pecans, and locust. Between March and October, stomach samples of 65 turtles showed that 56% of their diet by volume was composed of acorns of water, overcup, and willow oaks. The most frequently eaten food item was fish; despite this, fish only made up 7% of their diet by volume. Mammalian and bird prey, although less frequently eaten, made up 10% and 7% of the diet by volume respectively. As ingested willow oak acorns were found to germinate faster after defecation, it is suggested that alligator snapping turtles may be important seed dispersers of oak trees. While downstream dispersal of acorns is passive, ingestion by alligator snapping turtles could facilitate dispersal of acorns upstream as well as laterally across streams.
The alligator snapping turtle seemingly most often hunts at night. It may also hunt diurnally, however. By day, it may try to attract fish and other prey by sitting quietly at the bottom of murky water and letting its jaws hang open to reveal its tongue appendage, which looks like a small, pink worm in the back of its gray mouth, and lure the prey into striking distance. The vermiform tongue imitates the movements of a worm, luring prey to the turtle's mouth. The mouth is then closed with tremendous speed and force, completing the ambush. Although the turtle does not actively hunt its prey, it can detect chemosensory cues from prey, like the mud turtle, in order to choose the location in which it is most likely to catch food. Small fish, such as minnows, are often caught in this way by younger alligator snapping turtles, whereas adults must eat a greater quantity per day and must forage more actively. Though not a regular food source for them, adult alligator snappers have even been known to kill and eat small American alligators.
Reproduction and lifespan
Juvenile
Maturity is reached around 12 years of age. Mating takes place yearly, in early spring in the southern part of its geographic range, and in later spring in the northern part. About two months later, the female builds a nest and lays a clutch of 10–50 eggs. It was found that some females lay eggs every year and some females lay eggs every other year. The sex of the young depends on the temperature at which the eggs are incubated. This is called temperature dependent sex determination, and it is used by all turtle species to determine sex. For the alligator snapping turtle, higher temperatures produce more males in a clutch. Nests are typically excavated at least 50 yards from the water's edge to prevent them from being flooded and drowned. Incubation takes from 100 to 140 days, and hatchlings emerge in the early fall.
Though its potential lifespan in the wild is unknown, the alligator snapping turtle is believed to be capable of living to 200 years of age, but 80 to 120 is more likely. In captivity, it typically lives between 20 and 70 years.
Predation
The alligator snapping turtle is most vulnerable to predators before and shortly after hatching. The eggs can be eaten by birds or mammals. The risk of predation decreases as the turtle gets bigger, so the adult turtle does not have as many predators. Their largest predator in many parts of their range is the northern river otter(Lontra canadensis) when the turtles are young.
Humans are also a threat to the alligator snapping turtle. Populations in the US are at historic lows. This is mainly due to harvesting the turtles for their meat. US harvest rates have increased 209% since 1998. Even farmed turtle populations may be restocked from wild populations. There is also harvest minimum limits but no harvest maximums, meaning that the larger adults may be removed from populations.
Under human care
Correct handling of a 45 lb (20 kg) alligator snapping turtle at Austin Reptile Service, in Austin, Texas
The alligator snapping turtle is sometimes captive-bred as a pet and is readily available in the exotic animal trade. Due to its potential size and specific needs, it does not make a particularly good pet for any but the most experienced aquatic turtle keepers.
It prefers to feed on live fish, but will readily feed on other types of meat or leafy vegetables if offered. Hand feeding is dangerous. Extreme temperatures are known to affect the turtle's appetite and would result in the turtle refusing to feed until the temperature has been regulated.
Due to the turtle's sheer size, handling an adult specimen poses significant problems. With relative safety, a smaller turtle is held by the sides of its shell. A larger turtle, with its proportionately longer neck and greater reach, is held safely by grasping the shells just behind the head with one hand and using the other hand to grasp the shell just above the tail's base.
Despite its reputation, the alligator snapping turtle is typically not prone to biting. However, if provoked, it is quite capable of delivering a powerful bite which can easily amputate fingers or cause other significant injuries, such as cuts. In some U.S. states, where the alligator snapping turtle does not naturally occur (such as California), it is prohibited from being kept as a pet by residents.
Invasive species
In Zoo Atlanta
At Taronga ZOO, Sydney, Australia
Some alligator snapping turtles were released or escaped into waters of the Czech Republic, Germany and Hungary. In Bavaria, a turtle was accused of causing injury to a child, but the claim was never substantiated and the turtle in question was never found. In Bohemia, four turtles of this species have been caught. In Hungary, one turtle was caught in the middle of a street near a lake. Alligator snapping turtles have been found throughout Italy beginning in the early 2000s. As a result of released pets, alligator snapping turtles are considered an invasive species in Italy. They are considered a threat to pond biodiversity and to human health (due to their ability to carry leptospirosis). Certain EU countries have strong laws against keeping the alligator snapping turtle without permission, as it is an invasive species.
In February 2024, a single male was found in Urswick Tarn in Cumbria, England. The turtle, which was nicknamed 'Fluffy' by his rescuers, has since been moved to the National Centre for Reptile Welfare in Kent.
There are non-native established invasive populations of the alligator snapping turtle in South Africa.
Conservation status
Because of collection for the exotic pet trade, overharvesting for its meat, and habitat destruction, some states have imposed bans on collecting the alligator snapping turtle from the wild. The IUCN lists it as an endangered species, and as of 23 February 2023, it was listed as a CITES Appendix II species, meaning international trade (including in parts and derivatives) is regulated by the CITES permit system.
The alligator snapping turtle is now endangered in several states, including Indiana, Illinois, Kentucky, and Missouri, where it is protected by state law. It is designated as "in need of conservation" in Kansas.
In October 2013, one was found in the Prineville Reservoir in Oregon. It was captured and euthanized by the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, which considers alligator snapping turtles to be an invasive species. This one was the first found in the state.
In June 2024, it was announced captive alligator snapping turtles, bred in Oklahoma, would be reintroduced to the Neosho River in Kansas in hopes of bringing them back to its waterways.

--- SOURCE: 大鳄龟_zh_wiki.txt ---
大鳄龟
保护状况
易危（IUCN 2.3）
科学分类
界： 动物界 Animalia
门： 脊索动物门 Chordata
纲： 爬行纲 Reptilia
目： 龟鳖目 Testudines
亚目： 曲颈龟亚目 Cryptodira
科： 鳄龟科 Chelydridae
属： 大鳄龟属Macrochelys
种： 大鳄龟 M. temminckii
二名法
Macrochelys temminckii
Troost, 1835
异名
Macroclemmys temminckii
Chelonura temminckii
Testudo planitia
大鳄龟（学名：Macrochelys temminckii），又名真鳄龟，是大鳄龟属的一个种，是世界最大的淡水龟之一。它们与拟鳄龟共归于鳄龟科，成体体型大且具有硬壳，因此少有天敌，咬合力强。种小名是为纪念荷兰动物学家康拉德·雅各·特明克。
特征
大鳄龟的头部较重，脖子粗短而头大，无法完全缩入壳内。龟壳长而厚，有三行大型的鳞脊。它们与拟鳄龟不同，龟壳上有三行棘。体色呈灰色、褐色、黑色或橄榄绿色，壳上时常覆有一层藻类。眼睛周围有散开的黄色斑纹，且有星星状形似睫毛的肉质组织。
传说在美国堪萨斯州曾发现一只重达403磅（约183公斤）的大鳄龟，但纪录上最重的只有236磅（约107公斤），并存放在芝加哥的布鲁克菲尔德动物园，一般个体不会达到这种尺寸。成年的龟壳平均约有26吋（约66公分）长及重175磅（约79公斤）。雄龟一般较雌龟大。大型个体也可达约16-32吋（约41-81公分）。
大鳄龟的头部。
龟壳长12-15吋（约30-38公分）的鳄龟，就可以从泄殖腔的位置及尾巴底的厚度来辨别性别。雄龟的泄殖腔较远离龟壳，而雌龟的泄殖腔非常靠近龟壳的边缘。由于雄龟的生殖器官，其尾巴底会较厚。
大鳄龟的口腔具有伪装，口腔除了舌头之外的部位都是深色，舌头呈粉红色，舌头形似蠕虫，用于捕捉鱼类。捕猎时卧在水底不动并张开口。它们的舌头会模仿蠕虫的动作，吸引猎物游进它们的口中。当猎物靠近，它们就会急速闭口。
大鳄龟咬合力极强，且普遍性情凶猛，需小心应对。
分布及栖息地
大鳄龟是北美洲最大的淡水龟，主要栖息在美国南部的水域。它们可以潜在水中达3小时。大部分生命周期都居于水中，雌龟只有在筑巢时才会上陆。
食性
大鳄龟是机会主义者，几乎是完全的肉食性，主动捕食同时也吃腐肉。在美国北方的州份，如密歇根州，幼龟甚至会吃植物。它们一般会在缺乏食物的情况下或是夏天才会如此。当它们成熟时，它们会变成杂食性，对鱼类的数量并不构成威胁。小鱼往往是幼龟的食物来源。它们的食物类型广泛，主要吃鱼类及死鱼、无脊椎动物、腐肉及两栖动物，也会吃蛇或其他龟，亦会吃鸟。饲养下的大鳄龟会吃任何肉类，包括牛肉、鸡肉及猪肉，但要先引诱大鳄龟“开口”。成年的大鳄龟也曾被目击猎食小型的鳄鱼。
繁殖及寿命
大鳄龟12岁达到性成熟。每年会交配一次，南方的是在初春，而北方的则是在春末。雌龟负责筑巢，2个月后会生10-50颗蛋。幼龟的性别会视蛋孵化时的温度来决定。巢一般位于水边最少4.6米以外的地方，避免泛滥及水浸。孵化期为100-140日，幼龟会于初冬出生。
野外大鳄龟的一般寿命不明，据信可以活到150岁。饲养下的寿命一般为20-70岁。
饲养
大鳄龟有时会被当作宠物。由于其大小及独特的需求，它们并非容易饲养的宠物。它们比起拟鳄龟较不喜欢咬人，但在受威胁时则会咬人，能轻易咬断手指。在一些非天然分布的州份，如加利福尼亚州，一般都禁止饲养它们。
许多人因为不拟续养，便将其随意弃养在水池或河里。在台湾台中市的国立中兴大学，校方在清理中兴湖的淤泥时，在其中发现两只约10年前被放生的大鳄龟，由于湖内食物充足，令鳄龟长至半米长、20公斤重。在香港也有发现不少的鳄龟被弃养在明渠上和垃圾筒里，主要在新界一带。这些做法，都会对放生地的原生物种带来伤害。
保育状况
大鳄龟由于人类的猎杀及失去栖息地，被世界自然保护联盟列成易危。猎杀它们是为其龟壳，其胸甲的十字架形状具高价值。也有将鳄龟烹制龟汤等。
大鳄龟受到《濒危野生动植物种国际贸易公约》附录三的保护，限制其出口及国际贸易。