--- SOURCE: 非洲大蜗牛_baidu.txt ---
非洲大蜗牛，是柄眼目玛瑙螺科玛瑙螺属软体动物，又名褐云玛瑙螺、非洲巨螺、菜螺、花螺 等。非洲大蜗牛是中大型陆栖蜗牛。其贝壳狭窄、锥形，壳质稍厚，有光泽，呈长卵圆形，螺旋部呈圆锥形；壳面为黄色或深黄底色，带有焦褐色雾状花纹；生长线粗而明显，壳内为淡紫色或蓝白色，体螺层上的螺纹不明显，中部各螺层的螺层与生长线交错；壳口呈卵圆形，口缘简单，完整；外唇薄而锋利；内唇贴缩于体螺层上，轴缘外折，无脐孔；足部肌肉发达，背面呈暗棕黑色，遮面呈灰黄色，其黏液无色。
非洲大蜗牛分布于中国广东、香港、云南、广西、福建及台湾等 ，东非沿岸桑给巴尔、奔巴岛一带为非洲大蜗牛原产地 。非洲大蜗牛昼伏夜出，白天栖息于阴暗潮湿的隐蔽处和藏匿于腐殖质多而疏松的土壤中或垃圾堆中、枯草堆中、土洞或乱石穴内 。非洲大蜗牛会以各种新鲜的蔬菜和水果等为食，部分也吃黑面包和浸泡过的狗食 。该动物雌雄同体。在潮湿的环境中，一年产卵五 次或六次，每次产卵数量可达200颗，而且繁殖很快 。非洲大蜗牛的寿命比较长，一般可达 5～7 年。
非洲大蜗牛是一种世界性农业害虫，对中国的本土物种、生态环境以及社会经济等都产生了较大的影响与危害 。非洲大蜗牛能够对500多种植物产生危害，包括农作物、林木、果树、蔬菜、花卉等，是许多人畜寄生虫和病原菌的中间宿主，尤其会传播结核病和嗜酸性脑膜炎。已被中国列入《中国第一批外来入侵物种名单》。
中文名
非洲大蜗牛
拉丁学名
Lissachatina fulica
别 名
非洲巨蜗牛、露螺、东风螺、菜螺、花螺、法国螺
外文名
Giant African Land Snail
Giant African Snail
Giant East African Snail
界
动物界
门
软体动物门
纲
腹足纲
目
柄眼目
科
玛瑙螺科
属
玛瑙螺属
种
非洲大蜗牛
亚 纲
直腹足亚纲
亚 种
5亚种，1变种
命名者及年代
Bowdich, 1822
同义学名1
Helix fulica Férussac, 1821
同义学名2
Helix (Cochlitoma) fulica Férussac, 1821
同义学名3
Achatina fulica (Férussac, 1821)
同义学名4
Achatina (Lissachatina) fulica (Férussac, 1821)
同义学名5
Achatina acuta Lamarck, 1822
同义学名6
Achatina couroupa Lesson, 1831
同义学名7
Achatina fasciata Deshayes, 1831
同义学名8
Achatina fulva Deshayes, 1838
同义学名9
Achatina zebra var. macrostoma Beck, 1837
同义学名10
Achatina mauritiana Lamarck, 1822
形态特征
非洲大蜗牛贝壳大型，通常体长7-8厘米，最大20厘米，体重可达800克。 贝壳狭窄、锥形，长宽比约为二比一。壳质稍厚，有光泽，呈长卵圆形。壳高130毫米，宽54毫米，螺层为7-9个，螺旋部呈圆锥形。体螺层膨大，其高度约为壳高的3/4。壳顶尖，缝合线深。壳面为黄或深黄底色，带有焦褐色雾状花纹。胚壳一般呈玉白色。其他各螺层有断读的棕色条纹。生长线粗而明显，壳内为淡紫色或蓝白色，体螺层上的螺纹不明显，中部各螺层的螺层与生长线交错。壳口呈卵圆形，口缘简单，完整。外唇薄而锋利，易碎。内唇贴缩于体螺层上，形成“S”形的蓝白色的胼胝部，轴缘外折，无脐孔。足部肌肉发达，背面呈暗棕黑色，遮面呈灰黄色，其粘液无色。
卵：椭圆形，色泽乳白或淡青黄色，外壳石灰质，长4.5-7毫米，宽4-5毫米，体积35-85立方毫米。
幼螺：刚孵化的螺为2.5个螺层，各螺层增长缓慢，壳面为黄或深黄底色，似成螺。其鉴定特征为：有壳，外形呈长卵圆形。螺层为6.5-8个，壳面有焦褐色雾状花纹，壳口呈卵圆形，贝壳可容纳整个足部。生殖系统不具有附属器官。肾脏较长，常为心围膜长的2-3倍。肺静脉无分枝。
1978年12月，吉尼斯认证的最大的陆地蜗牛是非洲巨型蜗牛(Ahatina achatina)，它是最大的记录标本，在完全伸展时从鼻子到尾巴的长度为39.3厘米，1978年12月的壳长为27.3厘米。重量恰好为900克。
非洲大蜗牛
卵
非洲大蜗牛
（注：非洲大蜗牛图册网址 ）
近种区别
非洲大蜗牛
玛瑙蜗牛
通常体长7-8厘米，最大20厘米，体重可达32克。
螺壳长约6-8厘米，宽约3-4厘米，重50克以上。
非洲大蜗牛
玛瑙蜗牛
栖息环境
适宜于非洲大蜗牛生长、繁殖的地区为海拔800米以下的低热河谷区。非洲大蜗牛生活的适宜气温为15-38℃，土壤湿度为45%-85%；最适宜的气温为20-32℃，土壤湿度为55%-75%。当气温低于14℃，土壤湿度低于40%或气温超过39℃，土壤湿度达90%以上时，非洲大蜗牛即产生蜡封进行休眠或滞育。人类活动货物的流通、人为的携带，是非洲大蜗牛传播的主要途径；生产、生活垃圾的堆积，为非洲大蜗牛的栖息、繁衍提供了场所。
喜好潮湿的环境。生活环境为陆地，主要栖息于菜地、农田、果园、公园、橡胶园里、杂草丛生、树木葱郁、农作物繁茂阴暗潮湿的环境以及腐殖质的土壤里、枯草堆、洞穴中以及树枝落叶和石块下。
生活习性
非洲大蜗牛具有昼伏夜出性、群居性，喜阴湿环境。白天栖息于阴暗潮湿的隐蔽处和藏匿于腐殖质多而疏松的土壤下、垃圾堆中、枯草堆、土洞或乱石穴内。晚上8:00以后开始爬出活动，9:00-11:00是活动高峰。次日早上5:00左右返回原居地或就近隐藏起来。畏光怕热，最怕阳光直射。对环境极为敏感，当湿度、温度不适宜时，蜗牛会将身体缩回壳中并分泌出粘液形成保护膜，封住壳口，以克服不良环境的干扰。
非洲大蜗牛
以蔬菜、花卉等农作物为食。各种绿色植物及糠麸均可作为该物种的食料。一般春天以白菜、青菜、莴苣等阔叶植物饲喂；夏天可喂大量甘蔗、向日葵叶、各种瓜果皮渣等；秋天气温低，食量减少，可喂些菜叶、薯片等，不吃青草、杂草，拒食有刺激性味道的葱、韭、蒜。
寄主是木瓜、木霜、仙人掌、面包果、橡胶、可可、茶、柑桔、椰子、菠萝、香蕉、竹芋、番薯、花生、菜豆、落地生根、铁角蕨、谷类植物（高粱、粟等）。
分布范围
原产地：非洲东部，但该物种已通过宠物贸易、作为食物资源和意外引入被广泛引入世界其他地区。
世界
北美：美国：佛罗里达州（根除工作始于2011年首次发现，最后一次发现是在2017年。2021年10月，佛罗里达州农业部在四年内没有进一步发现之后宣布根除成功。2022年6月，非洲大蜗牛再次在佛罗里达州被发现）。
南美洲和中美洲：阿根廷、巴西（圣保罗、里约热内卢、米纳斯吉拉斯州）、厄瓜多尔和委内瑞拉。
印度洋：马达加斯加、毛里求斯和塞舌尔。
太平洋群岛：夏威夷群岛、马里亚纳群岛、博宁、加罗林群岛、关岛、维克、社会群岛、瓦努阿图、库克群岛、美属萨摩亚、西萨摩亚和密克罗尼西亚。
加勒比：瓜德罗普岛、马提尼克岛、圣卢西亚和巴巴多斯。
大洋洲：布干维尔、新几内亚、新爱尔兰、新不列颠、巴布亚和新喀里多尼亚。
亚洲：印度、斯里兰卡、孟加拉、马来亚、越南、苏里南、爪哇、巴厘岛、苏拉威西、摩鹿加群岛、弗洛雷斯、帝汶、伊朗、查亚、泰国、日本和中国。
非洲：埃塞俄比亚、索马里、莫桑比克、摩洛哥、科特迪瓦、加纳、安诺邦、赤道几内亚、圣托梅和马达加斯加。
中国
中国的福建、广东、广西、云南、海南、台湾和香港等地。
非洲大蜗牛分布图
繁殖方式
该种雌雄同体，异体交配，繁殖力强。每年可产卵4次，每次产卵150-300粒。卵孵化后，经5个月性发育成熟，成螺寿命一般为5-6年，最长可达9年。交配时间在晚上9:30-11:00，卵产于腐殖质多而潮湿的表土下1-2厘米的土层中或较潮湿的枯草堆、垃圾堆中，每头产卵量150-300粒。初孵的幼螺不取食，3-4天后开始取食。5-6个月性成熟。卵孵化从数个小时至17天。蜗牛在5-15个月时成熟，依温度据而定。（冬天低温度时延迟成熟以过冬）非洲大蜗牛寿命可能长达9年，一般是5-6年。
亚种分化
非洲大蜗牛（5亚种 1变种）
中文名称
学名
命名者及年代
1
非洲大蜗牛指名亚种
Lissachatina fulica fulica
Bowdich, 1822
2
非洲大蜗牛加纳亚种
Lissachatina fulica hamille
Petit, 1859
3
非洲大蜗牛黄色亚种
Lissachatina fulicaa rodatzi
Dunker, 1852
4
非洲大蜗牛左旋亚种
Lissachatina fulica sinistrosa
Grateloup, 1840
5
非洲大蜗牛凹脐亚种
Lissachatina fulica umbilicata
Nevill, 1879
6
非洲大蜗牛白化变种
（白玉蜗牛）
Lissachatina fulica var.
英文名称：White Jade Snails
1918-1919年，由在台湾的日本技师下条久马一自南洋引进，作为养殖食用。后传入中国大陆。
入侵物种
传播途径
传播途径主要通过人为方式传播，一是通过轮船、火车、汽车、飞机等运输工具，随观赏植物、苗木、板材、集装箱、货物包装箱传播；二是非洲大蜗牛个体大，外形美观，肉质鲜美，而被人们作观赏品和食物直接引入。
环境破坏
非洲大蜗牛的侵害对象包括农作物、林木、果树、蔬菜、花卉等植物，饥饿时也取食纸张和同伴尸体，甚至能啃食和消化水泥，可危害500多种作物。“非洲大蜗牛”是许多人畜寄生虫和病原菌的中间宿主，尤其是传播结核病和嗜酸性脑膜炎，食用则危害极大。
非洲大蜗牛是公认的热带与亚热带地区最糟糕的一种蜗牛。它吃掉大量的本土植物，改变栖息地。竞逐原生蜗牛。非洲大蜗牛也可能替掠食动物提供一个替代的食物来源，改变食物链，进而改变本土生态系统。如果掠食动物也是入侵种，可能会有不幸的后果。举例来说，在日本博宁群岛，入侵的蔗蟾被发现会吃非洲大蜗牛。然而，自然捕食也可能帮助控制非洲大蜗牛的族群。例如，在圣诞岛，非洲大蜗牛尚未在受干扰的雨林建立族群；一般认为原因是，本土圣诞岛红蟹会吃掉大量的蜗牛。
非洲大蜗牛是农作物的主要害虫，会吃各种作物，引起严重的经济损失。1969年美国佛罗里达州估计，非洲大蜗牛会造成每年损失1100万美元，如果族群没有得到控制（美国农业部1982年）。在印度，它达到了严重虫害的状态，特别是在1946年至47年，它在奥里萨邦出现流行，对蔬菜作物和稻田造成严重的破坏。最有可能被蜗牛损坏的植物是花园花卉和观赏植物及蔬菜，（尤其是十字花科，葫芦科和豆科）和面包果、木薯和柚木的幼株。非洲大蜗牛也可能增加植物疾病（举例来说，由黑色荚疾病引起的Phytophthorapalmivora）的传布，它在它的排泄物中的传布。
感染疾病
非洲大蜗牛是一些病原体和寄生虫的病媒体，会传播鼠肺线虫，感染人类造成一种脑膜炎。与细菌Aeromonas hyfrophila（Kliks and Palumbo 1992年）。蜗牛内的寄生虫通常通过人类吃生的或没有煮熟的蜗牛传染给人类。例如，在美属萨摩亚群岛16名韩国渔夫感染嗜曙红性脑炎，在吃下一餐感染Angiostrongylus cantonensis寄生虫的非洲大蜗牛之后.（Kliks等 1982年）。
非洲大蜗牛的寄生虫包括：深奥猫圆线虫；广州管圆线虫：引起嗜酸性粒细胞性脑膜脑炎；脊形管圆线虫—导致胃肠管圆线虫病；血吸虫—血吸虫病的原因。在粪便中检测到：鞭虫—在粪便中检测到；膜壳绦虫—在粪便中检测到；粪类圆线虫—粪便和粘液分泌检测到。
入侵案例
美国佛罗里达州
2013年4月15日台湾每日新闻云报道，美国佛罗里达州成千上万只硕大如鼠的“非洲巨蜗牛”入侵。非洲巨蜗牛侵袭佛州得从1966年说起，一个孩子从夏威夷带了三只蜗牛回到迈阿密，结果在7年内，它们就成了为数17000只的庞大族群。当地政府每年花费百万美元对付蜗牛，但每到雨季过后，它们又会爆炸性成长。一只母蜗牛每年可产下1200颗卵，并且疯狂吃石灰来补充钙质，促进外壳发育。此外，它们还会传播鼠肺线虫，这有可能感染人类造成一种脑膜炎。
广西南宁
2013年9月20日，南宁市郊出现非洲大蜗牛，繁殖力极强。这种被中国首批列为16种外来入侵物种之一的“田园杀手”昼伏夜出，对蔬菜等农作物危害极大，系中国国家进出境二类检疫性有害生物。非洲大蜗牛是繁殖能力极强的植食性旱生蜗牛，食谱涉及数百种草本、木本、藤本植物，对花圃、农田作物危害极大，被称为“田园杀手”。非洲大蜗牛虽然繁殖速度极快，但在广西有天敌，而且可以用农药灭杀，因此，没有造成大规模的爆发。
中国福州
2014年7月，中国福州市民曹女士在铜盘路附近，看见一只“巨型蜗牛”。经专家鉴定，这是“非洲大蜗牛”，是中国首批公布的有害外来入侵物种，20世纪80年代，福建曾有不少人养殖，但被禁后，养殖户将它们抛到野外。这种蜗牛破坏力很强，会危害500多种作物，甚至连水泥都能吃。而且，这种蜗牛会传播结核病和嗜酸性脑膜炎，所以不能用手接触，更不能吃。它早被中国禁养，此次在榕市区发现，疑是有人偷偷养殖。这只巨型蜗牛很奇特，螺有近10厘米长，外壳黄褐色并带花纹。外壳形似螺状，很坚硬。
广东惠州
2024年5月6日，广东惠州一名家住二楼的女子在社交平台发视频称，她下雨天时忘记关窗户，结果出趟门回家发现厨房里爬进来两只非洲大蜗牛，其中一只蜗牛还爬进了她的杯子里 。
广东深圳
2026年5月消息，一名年仅1岁女童在深圳光明一小区玩耍后突发持续高烧，经多日诊治最终确诊为“广州管圆线虫病”引发的严重脑炎，患儿历经半年规范治疗才得以停药，后续仍需长期随访观察。主治医生介绍，该患儿的感染来源是南方非常常见的非洲大蜗牛，这种物种是携带致命寄生虫的“隐形杀手”。
防治方法
非洲大蜗牛属旱生软体动物，昼伏夜出，给防治带来一定困难。除化学防治方法经济可行外，其他措施仍可作为局部防治或辅助性措施。
1.
机械防治：可利用黎明、黄昏、夜间或雷雨后，蜗牛活动觅食的时机，进行人工捕杀，还可利用其习性，用食物诱杀。也可用苛性碳酸钠、干石灰、钾盐镁矾在大田中拌土形成一条保护带，阻止蜗牛的侵入。此外，也可利用光滑铜板（0.8mm厚、5cm高），锌板（0.8mm厚、20-25cm宽）形成机械隔离围墙。
2.
农业防治：利用农业栽培措施，改变生态环境。蜗牛喜湿但忌水，水旱轮作可杀灭蜗牛。铲除花圃、菜地周围的杂草，破坏其越冬越夏场所，也可减轻蜗牛危害的发生。
3.
化学防治：常用的方法有：用四聚乙醛（1.6%），使用10kg/ha喷雾，或用15%四聚乙醛粉剂50kg/ha、4%氨基甲酸酯100kg/ha、硫酸铜125-250kg/ha、硫酸铁125-250kg/ha喷雾。也可以在下午5时后，用1%-5%杀贝剂或1%-1.5%氨溶液地面喷药防治，或用稍高于常规浓度的甲胺磷、乐果等农药喷洒植物，蜗牛取食后中毒死亡。此外，采用毒饵诱杀也有一定效果，常用5%砷酸钙与1.6%四聚乙醛混合，同蜗牛食物掺在一起作毒饵。
4.
生物防治：已发现许多生物可寄生或捕食蜗牛，如细菌、线虫、节肢动物、软体动物、哺乳动物等，但都没有被广泛应用。尽管如此，创造良好生态环境，保护好自然天敌，或人工饲养释放，仍是一条稳定控制非洲大蜗牛的有效途径。积极保护利用蟾蜍、青蛙、蚂蚁、鸟类，提倡饲养鸡、鸭、鹅，来控制非洲大蜗牛已收到较明显的效果。
5.
特别注意：非洲大蜗牛是许多人畜寄生虫和病原菌的中间宿主，尤其是传播结核病和嗜酸性脑膜炎，食用则危害极大。
物种管理
2023年1月1日起，被列入重点管理外来入侵物种名录。

--- SOURCE: 非洲大蜗牛_en_wiki.txt ---
Lissachatina fulica
Species of land snail
Lissachatina fulica
Lissachatina fulica in Bali, Indonesia
Conservation status
Secure (NatureServe)
Scientific classification
Kingdom: Animalia
Phylum: Mollusca
Class: Gastropoda
Order: Stylommatophora
Family: Achatinidae
Genus: Lissachatina
Species: L. fulica
Binomial name
Lissachatina fulica
(Férussac, 1821)
Synonyms
Achatina (Lissachatina) fulica(Férussac, 1821)· accepted, alternate representation
Achatina fulica(Férussac, 1821)
Achatina (Lissachatina) fulica fulicaBowdich, 1822 (unaccepted combination)
Achatina acutaLamarck, 1822 (junior synonym)
Achatina couroupaLesson, 1831 (junior synonym)
Achatina fasciataDeshayes, 1831 (junior synonym)
Achatina fulicaBowdich, 1822 (superseded combination)
Achatina fulvaDeshayes, 1838 (invalid: not Achatina fulva Beck, 1837)
Achatina mauritianaLamarck, 1822 (junior synonym)
Achatina mauritiana var. sinistrorsa Grateloup, 1840 (junior synonym)
Achatina redivinaMabille, 1901 (junior synonym)
Achatina zebra var. macrostomaBeck, 1837 (junior synonym)
Helix (Cochlitoma) fulicnaFérussac, 1821 (basionym)
Helix fulicaFérussac, 1821 (original combination)
Lissachatina fulica is a species of large land snail that belongs in the subfamily Achatininae of the family Achatinidae. It is also known as the giant African land snail. It shares the common name "giant African snail" with other species of snails such as Achatina achatina and Archachatina marginata. This snail species has been considered a significant cause of pest issues around the world. It is a federally prohibited species in the US, as it is illegal to sell or possess. Internationally, it is the most frequently occurring invasive species of snail.
Outside of its native range, this snail thrives in many types of habitat with mild climates. It feeds voraciously and is a vector for plant pathogens, causing severe damage to agricultural crops and native plants. It competes with native snail taxa, is a nuisance pest of urban areas, and spreads human disease.
Lissachatina fulica castanea(Lamarck, 1822)
Lissachatina fulica coloba(Pilsbry, 1904)
Lissachatina fulica hamillei(Petit, 1859)
Distribution
The species is native to East Africa, but it has been widely introduced to other parts of the world through the pet trade, as a food resource, and by accidental introduction.
Within Africa, the snail can be found along the eastern coast of South Africa, extending northward into Somalia. However, some of its distribution into northern African may be due to human introduction, starting in northern Mozambique, Tanzania, Kenya, and extending through Somalia into Ethiopia. The snail has been reported in Morocco, Ghana, and the Ivory Coast as early as the 1980s.
In 1961, Albert R. Mead, published the seminal work entitled "The Giant African Snail: A Problem in Economic Malacology". This book compiled known information on the snail, as well as a detailed overview on its global distribution.
Prior to 1800, the snail was found in Madagascar, spreading westward to Mauritius, reaching Réunion in 1821, then to Seychelles in 1840. In 1847, they were introduced to India and in 1900 in Sri Lanka. In 1911, the snail was present in northern Malaysia, possibly from India or Myanmar. In 1922, the snail was identified in Singapore although it may have been present as early as 1917. In 1925, the snail was shipped to Java, from which it spread across Indonesia. In 1928, the snail was observed in Sarawak.
This species has been found in China since 1931 and its initial point of distribution in China was Xiamen. The snail has also been established on Pratas Island, of Taiwan.
The species was established in Hawaii by 1936. The snail was present in Papua New Guinea by 1946, spreading from New Ireland and New Britain to the mainland by 1976–77. By 1967 the snail was present in Tahiti, spreading through New Caledonia and Vanuatu by 1972 into French Polynesia by 1978, including American Samoa.
By 1990, the snail was reported in Samoa and the Federated States of Micronesia in 1998.
In 1984, L. fulica was found established in the French West Indies, spreading across Guadeloupe and by 1988 arriving in Martinique. In 2008, populations of L. fulica were reported in Trinidad but were greatly reduced by 2010. In 2014, the snail was reported in Havana, Cuba.
In Brazil, the first introduction of L. fulica came in 1988 in Paraná. By 2007, it was recorded in 23 of the 26 Brazilian states. In 2006–08, the snail was recorded in Ecuador, in Pichincha, and may have been present at least 10 years prior in 'snail farms'. The presence of the snail in Colombia was reported by 2008–2009. Although the time of the initial introduction is unknown, it has been registered in all regions of the country by 2012. Live specimens were found in Piura, Peru, around 2008 as well. The snail may be present in Venezuela and was reported in Puerto Iguazú, Argentina in 2010.
The species has been observed in Bhutan (Gyelposhing, Mongar), where it is an invasive species since 2006 and their number increased drastically since 2008.
In the contiguous United States, the snail had been reported in Miami, Florida in 1966 and 2011, in both cases requiring nearly a decade to eradicate. Three separate introductions identified in June 2022 (north of Tampa), December 2022 (Fort Myers), and June 2023 (north of Miami) are presently under quarantine as eradication efforts continue.
Description
African giant snail from Sri Lanka
The eggs of Lissachatina fulica are pure white and opaque but may be slightly yellowish or even somewhat transparent. The eggs have a thin, calcareous shell, and are about 5 mm long and 4 mm wide.
A newly hatched snail is called a neonate. When the giant African land snail hatches, its shell is about 5 to 5.5 mm long, consisting of 2.5 whorls. As the snail grows, its shell extends either clockwise (dextral) or counter-clockwise (sinistral), coiling and creating whirls as the snail ages.
Younger snails will have a vertical pattern on their shell (wrinkles, welts, and criss-crossing patterns) of brown and cream color bands. As the snail grows, the new whorls of its shell will be smooth and glossy, consisting of only a brown color. A fully adult snail is around 7 cm (2.8 in) in diameter and 20 cm (7.9 in) or more in length, making it one of the largest of all extant land snails. An adult snail may be expected to have 7-9 whorls, but this is not necessarily a reliable indicator of age; nor is the width of the snail's peristome (the shell's lip at the aperture or opening of the shell), which was traditionally used to measure age, as it varies as well.
While the snail most typically has a brown shell with cream sections at its apex, the shell coloration is highly variable. A buttery yellow body (also called pedal or foot) is possible, rather than the typical brownish grey body and brown shell. This variety is nicknamed the 'white jade snail' in China. The snail also comes in the 'golden' variety, sometimes considered an albino type; with a yellow body and yellow shell.
Apertural view of the shell
Lateral view of the shell
Abapertural view of the shell
Adult shell size range
Adult and juvenile
Three shells of increasing maturity
Ecology
Habitat
L. fulica climbing a papaya tree
L. fulica climbing a wall
Within its native range in Africa, the snail is found along the margins of forests. Within its invasive range it can be found in agricultural areas as well as urban areas. The snails prefer areas that shelter them from light in the daytime and prevent desiccation; examples are leaf litter or piles of debris. It will also climb tree trunks or walls when conditions allow.
L. fulica occurs in a wide range of temperate climates, now including most regions of the humid tropics. The snail can tolerate a broad range of soil pH and calcium conditions, although calcium is critical for snail shell development. Relative humidity, such as the amount of rain, is an important factor for snail growth. In fact, the snail's shell growth pattern will reflect rain fall patterns, much like the growth rings of a tree. The species can tolerate temperatures of 0-9 °C (48.2 °F) to 45 °C (113 °F) but thrives in temperatures between 22 and 32 °C (71.6-89.6 °F). When overwintering is necessary, the snail will burrow below the surface and may not lay eggs until temperatures increase to above 15 °C (59 °F). This tactic to avoid extreme conditions is called aestivating. The snail can survive in an aestivation state for up to three years by sealing itself into its shell by secretion of a calcareous compound that dries on contact with the air.
Feeding
Feeding on Crinum leaves
The giant African snail is a macrophytophagous herbivore; it eats a wide range of living plant material, commercially important fruits and vegetables, ornamental plants such as flowers, native plants, as well as weeds and detritus plant material. At different life stages and temperatures, the snail has slightly different feeding preferences. For example, young snails are likely to consume soil for its calcium content.
Trash, cardboard, and occasionally stucco have been reportedly consumed. Under some conditions the snail will consume dead snails and other deceased animals. It can also be found consuming animal feces as a protein source, which is required for optimal growth.
Lifecycle
This snail is a protandrichermaphrodite; each individual has both testes and ovaries and is capable of producing both sperm and ova. The testes typically mature first around 5–8 months, followed by the ovaries.Self-fertilization has been observed and therefore snails do not require a partner to reproduce, however it is relatively rare and the resulting egg clutch is small with low viability. Typically, mating involves a simultaneous transfer of gametes to each other (bilateral sperm transfer, as compared to unilateral sperm transfer), however only the older snail with mature ovaries will produce eggs. Younger, smaller snails are more likely to initiate mating with a mate preference for larger, older snails; although larger, older snails may also mate with each other.
Snails mate at night and their mating begins with courtship rituals that can last up to half an hour, including petting their heads and front parts against each other. Up to 90% of attempted courtships are rejected and do not end in copulation. Copulation can last anywhere from 1–24 hours but tends to last 6–8 hours. Transferred sperm can be stored within the body up to two years.
The snails are oviparous and lay shelled eggs. The number of eggs per clutch and clutches per year varies by environment and age of the parent, but averages to around 200 eggs per clutch and 5–6 clutches per year. The eggs hatch after 8–21 days. The newly emerged neonate will consume its own shell and that of its siblings. The snail reaches adult size in about six months, after which growth slows, but does not cease until death. Life expectancy is 3–5 years in the wild and 5–6 years in captivity, but the snails can live for up to 10 years.
Fresh eggs
Hatching from eggs
Juvenile snail
As an invasive species
In many places, this snail is a pest of agriculture and households, with the ability to transmit both human and plant pathogens. Suggested preventive measures include strict quarantine to prevent introduction and further spread. This snail has been given top national quarantine significance in the United States. In the past, quarantine officials have been able to successfully intercept and eradicate incipient invasions on the mainland USA.
This snail was twice established in southeastern Florida and was successfully eradicated both times. They were brought to the U.S. through imports, intended for educational uses and to be pets. Some were also introduced because they were accidentally shipped with other cargo. An eradication effort in Florida began in 2011 when they were first sighted, and the last sighting was in 2017. In October 2021 the Florida Department of Agriculture declared the eradication a success after no further sightings in those four years. In June 2022 the snail was again found in Florida.
In the wild, this species often harbors the parasitic nematode Angiostrongylus cantonensis, which can cause a very serious meningitis in humans. Human cases of this meningitis usually result from a person having eaten the raw or undercooked snail, but even handling live wild snails of this species can infect a person with the nematode, thus causing a life-threatening infection.
In some regions, an effort has been made to promote use of the giant African snail as a food resource to reduce its populations. However, promoting a pest in this way is a controversial measure, because it may encourage the further deliberate spread of the snails.
One particularly catastrophic attempt to biologically control this species occurred on South Pacific Islands. Colonies of A. fulica were introduced as a food reserve for the American military during World War II and they escaped. A carnivorous species (Florida rosy wolfsnail, Euglandina rosea) was later introduced by the United States government, in an attempt to control A. fulica, but the rosy wolf snail instead heavily preyed upon the native Partula snails, causing the extinction of most Partula species within a decade.
The snail has been eradicated from California (U.S.), Queensland (Australia), Fiji, Western Samoa, Vanuatu, and Wake Island, but these were relatively small populations.
The Argentinian National Agricultural Health Service has established an ongoing project to detect, study, and prevent the expansion of this pest.
In early April 2021, USCBP intercepted 22 being smuggled from Ghana into the US, along with various other prohibited quarantine items.
Human health
Terrestrial snails in urban environments at high densities pose a risk for human health in the form of zoonotic disease. Human-mediated transport is a major cause of the dispersal of invasive and pest snails, which are then able to survive at high densities in close proximity to people. Young children and adults are vulnerable to zoonotic disease due to an increased likelihood of direct contact with the snail (such as picking the snail up) as well as ingestion of the snail or vegetation contaminated by the snail. Direct contact with snail or ingestion of snail-contaminated food and subsequent infection can result in gastrointestinal and urinary symptoms followed by neurological symptoms. These symptoms appear if the infected snail itself is ingested but is also likely to result in muscular and sensory symptoms.
Rat Lung Worm Disease
Angiostrongylus cantonensis, also known as "rat lungworm", is a nematode that causes eosinophilic meningoencephalitis. Infected snails have been found in South American countries including Peru, Ecuador, Venezuela, and Brazil. As of 2020, no human-cases were reported in Florida, US, but have been documented in the states of Louisiana, Texas, with the greatest number in Hawaii.
In Hawaii, 82 cases were reported between 2007 and 2017. Commonly reported symptoms were headache, body aches, painful or sensitive skin, and a stiff neck; however, fever, vomiting, irritability, fatigue, and loss of appetite were reported in children 10 or younger.
Human cases of this meningitis usually result from a person having eaten the raw or undercooked snail, but even handling live wild snails of this species can infect a person with the nematode, thus causing a life-threatening infection. The most noticeable incident of human cases in Taiwan was the Chung family of Kimlan Foods: The family, which believed that eating raw snails could strengthen the body, contracted the lungworm and led to five fatalities after eating raw snails. The only surviving member of the family was not in Taiwan. After the incident, eating raw snails no longer exists in Taiwan.
Other Parasites
Several different species and types of parasites have been known to infect Lissachatina fulica, including more than 12 nematodes.
Aelurostrongylus abstrusus, also known as "feline lungworm", is a nematode that infects cats.
Angiostrongylus costaricensis is a nematode that causes abdominal angiostrongyliasis.
Fasciola gigantica is a flatworm that has been detected in the faeces and intestines of the snail.
Hymenolepis is a tapeworm that has been detected in the faeces of the snail.
Schistosoma mansoni is a parasitic flatworm that causes intestinal schistosomiasis. Sporocysts of S. mansoni have been detected in snail faeces
Strongyloides species, including Strongyloides stercoralis, are roundworms that have been detected in faeces and in mucous secretion of the snail.
Trichuris is a roundworm that has been detected in the faeces of the snail.
In culture
Individual being kept as a pet
These snails are used by some practitioners of Candomblé for religious purposes in Brazil as an offering to the deity Oxalá. The snails substitute for a closely related species, the West African giant snail (Archachatina marginata), normally offered in Nigeria. The two species are similar enough in appearance to satisfy religious authorities. They are also edible if cooked properly.
In Taiwan, this species is used in a dish called "fried snail" (炒螺肉), which is a delicacy among many traditional drinking snacks.L. fulica also constitutes the predominant land snail found in Chinese markets, and larger species have potential as small, efficient livestock.
The snails have also become increasingly popular as pets in some countries, where various companies have sold the animal both as a pet and an education aid. In light of social media posts where pet owners share images in close contact with the snails, a research from the University of Lausanne alerted with the risks of infections transmitted to humans.
The heparinoid acharan sulfate has been isolated from this species.

--- SOURCE: 非洲大蜗牛_zh_wiki.txt ---
褐云光滑玛瑙螺
科学分类
界： 动物界 Animalia
门： 软体动物门 Mollusca
纲： 腹足纲 Gastropoda
目： 柄眼目 Stylommatophora
科： 玛瑙螺科 Achatinidae
属： 光滑玛瑙螺属Lissachatina
种： 褐云光滑玛瑙螺 L. fulica
二名法
Lissachatina fulica
(Ferussac, 1821)
褐云光滑玛瑙螺（学名：Lissachatina fulica），旧属玛瑙螺属（学名：Achatina），又称褐云玛瑙螺，是一种陆生的大型肺螺类蜗牛。俗名非洲大蜗牛、菜螺、露螺。该物种可能携带有广东住血线虫。
特征
成体壳长一般为7-8公分，最大则可长到超过20公分。
壳略呈纺锤形，高约8厘米，质稍厚；螺层约六、七层，螺旋纹与生长纹相交错，体螺层大，螺旋纹不明显；壳面白或黄色，有红棕色条纹或焦褐色云状花纹；无厣，遇到干燥或冬眠时分泌乳白色粘液膜以封闭壳口。
开口面观
侧面观
背面观
分布
原产地为非洲东部，但目前已经广泛分布于亚洲、太平洋、印度洋和美洲等地的湿热地区。分布于桑给巴尔、毛里求斯、马达加斯加、塞舌尔、印度、斯里兰卡、越南、柬埔寨、老挝、新加坡、马来西亚、泰国、菲律宾、印度尼西亚、台湾、澳门、香港、日本以及中国大陆的福建、广东、广西、云南、海南等地。
台湾
台湾日治时期1932年（或作1933年）由台北帝国大学日籍教授下条久马一以食用因素擅自从新加坡将该物种引入台湾。但因为缺乏计划且繁殖力强而供过于求。
台湾全境均可发现其踪迹，现已执行分布普查之资料点，计有：新北市平溪区、屏东县恒春半岛、屏东县好茶玛家、花莲县玉里镇、南投县草屯镇、南投县埔里镇、新北市板桥区、新北市新店区、南投市、嘉义县阿里山、屏东县来义、恒春半岛内文地区、屏东县恒春半岛、屏东县满州乡及花莲县太鲁阁等地。台湾菜“炒螺肉”即是取食该物种，但蜗牛肉须完全熟食，各种料理方式无论是快炒或烹煮，起码要以摄氏七十度以上及二、三分钟以上的料理后，才可安心食用，否则可能因生食感染广东住血线虫，造成嗜伊红性脑膜炎而危及生命 。
习性
夜行性，喜好潮湿的环境。生活环境为陆地，主要栖息于菜地、农田、果园、公园、橡胶园里、杂草丛生、树木葱郁、农作物繁茂阴暗潮湿的环境以及腐殖质的土壤里、枯草堆、洞穴中以及树枝落叶和石块下。
褐云光滑玛瑙螺每当夏天或干旱时，会躲在阴凉处，并在壳口上生成一层白膜，只留一个小孔来呼吸，再将螺肉缩入壳内以防脱水，等到环境转好后再出来。
爬行
进食
食性
主要以蔬菜、花卉等农作物为食，但当食物困乏时，亦有同类相食的现象发生。因此在大部分的地区都被视为入侵物种。国际自然保护联盟物种存续委员会的入侵物种专家小组（ISSG）列为世界百大外来入侵种。
繁殖
褐云光滑玛瑙螺一年约生产5-6次，一次平均约生产100个卵。
生活史
约4个月就能长为成体，但长为成体后仍会缓慢成长。在饲养环境下，寿命约5-6年；但最久可能可到10年。
卵
孵化的卵
非洲大蜗牛幼体
另见
福寿螺
无斑光滑玛瑙螺