--- SOURCE: 豹纹翼甲鲶_baidu.txt ---
豹纹翼甲鲶（学名：Pterygoplichthys pardalis），别名清道夫、琵琶鱼，属骨甲鲶科翼甲鲶属动物。原产于南美洲亚马逊河流域，1990年作为观赏鱼引入中国广东省，后因逃逸和弃养形成野外入侵种群 。体长可达51.5厘米，体表具黑白色花纹，头部扁平，口唇呈吸盘状，尾柄细长，背鳍高耸 。杂食性，日食鱼卵3000-5000粒，吸附于水底吞食藻类、鱼类粘液及鱼苗 。
该物种基因组规模约1.58 Gb，含超4万个蛋白编码基因，经历转座子扩张和基因复制事件，免疫相关基因存在串联重复现象，可能与入侵适应性相关 。已在15个热带亚热带国家造成入侵，破坏河岸结构导致水土流失，影响水生生物食物链和渔业生产 。2023年1月1日被列入《重点管理外来入侵物种名录》，禁止放生、丢弃及引种养殖 。针对其防控已研发水下鱼卵智能识别专利技术 。
中文名
豹纹翼甲鲶
外文名
Pterygoplichthys pardalis
Hypostomus pardalis
Liposarcus jeanesianus
Liposarcus pardalis
Liposarcus varius
别 名
豹纹翼甲鲶、琵琶鼠、清道夫、垃圾鱼
界
动物界
科
骨甲鲶科Loricariidae
种
豹纹翼甲鲶
同种异名
Hypostomus pardalis, Liposarcus jeanesianus, Liposarcus pardalis, Liposarcus varius
形态特征
体延长而侧扁。头部前方颇为侧扁；眼后的头背部呈两叶半圆突起，中央具一凹沟。吻宽而钝扁。眼小，上侧位，眼间隔宽大。口裂大而平直，上颌略为前突。颊部圆突。具须4对，粗但短，向后延伸未达鳃盖缘。体裸露无鳞。背鳍短小，具1短棘，7较条；臀鳍具12软条；胸鳍亦具1短棘；脂鳍低而长，呈浅弧形隆起，后部与尾鳍鳍膜相连；尾鳍弧形。体呈黄棕色，腹面浅黄色。各鳍黄棕色，尾鳍具白色缘。
习性
杂食性。经常吸附在水族箱壁或水草上，舔食青苔、鱼分泌在缸壁上的粘液和鱼儿留下的食物残渣，更会吞食鱼卵，长大后食量很大。
分布
产于巴西、委内瑞拉
重点管理
2023年1月1日起，被列入重点管理外来入侵物种名录。

--- SOURCE: 豹纹翼甲鲶_en_wiki.txt ---
Pterygoplichthys pardalis
Species of fish
Pterygoplichthys pardalis
Conservation status
Least Concern (IUCN 3.1)
Scientific classification
Kingdom: Animalia
Phylum: Chordata
Class: Actinopterygii
Order: Siluriformes
Family: Loricariidae
Subfamily: Hypostominae
Tribe: Pterygoplichthyini
Genus: Pterygoplichthys
Species: P. pardalis
Binomial name
Pterygoplichthys pardalis
(Castelnau, 1855)
Synonyms
Hypostomus pardalisCastelnau, 1855
Liposarcus pardalisCastelnau, 1855
Liposarcus variusCastelnau, 1855
Liposarcus jeanesianusCastelnau, 1855
Pterygoplichthys pardalis, the Amazon sailfin catfish, is a freshwatertropical fish in the armored catfish family (Loricariidae). It is one of a number of species commonly referred to as the common pleco or "leopard pleco" by aquarists.
Description
This species will grow to a maximum length of 43 centimetres (17 in) SL and reach a weight of 310 g.
It is sometimes confused with the Hypostomus plecostomus (another armored catfish known as the "common plecostomus"). The two species can be distinguished by their number of dorsal rays. P. pardalis has 11–13, while the H. plecostomus has only 5–8 dorsal rays. It is also commonly misindentified as P. disjunctivus and can be differentiated by its spotted patterning.
There is an albino color variation of this species, usually referred to as an "Albino Plecostomus". The amelanistic form may also be sold as the "chocolate pleco".
Distribution and habitat
The species is native to the Amazon River Basin of Brazil and Peru, preferring pH ranges of 7.0–7.5. It is a facultative air breather; although normally a bottom-dwelling fish, it has the ability to breathe air from the surface of the water during dry periods or when dissolved oxygen is too low. The Amazon sailfin catfish has been introduced to a number of countries outside its native range. It is recorded in the Marikina River in the Philippines and known as the "janitor fish", where it has become a local pest and sold in bulk, in efforts to eliminate the fish. In the United States, invasive populations of sailfin catfishes like the Amazon sailfin catfish have been observed to be ecologically detrimental, as they disrupt aquatic food chains, decrease the abundance of native aquatic species, and degrade aquatic plants or banks of waterbodies through burrowing and tunneling.
Invasive species
In Malaysia, the fish was brought into the country in the 1970s for fish hobbyists. It is believed that they are dumped into Malaysian rivers and lakes by aquarium owners when it is too big for their fish tanks.
See also
List of freshwater aquarium fish species

--- SOURCE: 豹纹翼甲鲶_zh_wiki.txt ---
豹纹翼甲鲇
豹纹翼甲鲶
保护状况
未予评估（IUCN 3.1）
科学分类
界： 动物界 Animalia
门： 脊索动物门 Chordata
纲： 辐鳍鱼纲 Actinopteri
目： 鲇形目 Siluriformes
科： 甲鲇科 Loricariidae
属： 翼甲鲇属Pterygoplichthys
种： 豹纹翼甲鲇 P. pardalis
二名法
Pterygoplichthys pardalis
Castelnau, 1855
异名
Hypostomus pardalis, Castelnau, 1855
Liposarcus pardalis, Castelnau, 1855
Liposarcus varius, Cope, 1872
豹纹翼甲鲇（学名：Pterygoplichthys pardalis），又名琵琶鼠、清道夫鱼、垃圾鱼，为辐鳍鱼纲鲇形目甲鲇科翼甲鲇属下的一个种，为热带淡水鱼，分布于南美洲亚马逊河中游流域，体长可达49公分，栖息在底层水域，生活习性不明，可作为观赏鱼，已被引入许多国家成为入侵物种，例如菲律宾马利金纳河、台湾、美国。
种加词 pardalis 意为“豹纹的”。