--- SOURCE: 鳄雀鳝_baidu.txt ---
鳄雀鳝（学名：Atractosteus spatula）为雀鳝目雀鳝科大雀鳝属鱼类，又称大雀鳝、福鳄 ，是北美最大的淡水鱼之一，也是最大的鳝鱼种类 。体长大约为2米~3米之间，重约137千克 ，重达159千克 ，外观形似鳄鱼 ，上下颌分布有长而细的尖锐牙齿，上颌有两排牙齿，内侧长于外侧 。尾鳍呈异尾型，背鳍和臀鳍的位置位于后部，背部呈灰绿色或灰褐色，腹部呈淡黄色或白色，幼鱼的背鳍、臀鳍和尾鳍有椭圆形的黑色斑点 。
鳄雀鳝主要分布于墨西哥湾沿岸平原和密西西比河流域 ，主要生活在水流较缓的大型河流、湖泊、水库、牛轭湖的淡水环境中，或河口和海湾的微咸水中 。鳄雀鳝是一种凶猛的肉食性鱼类，几乎能吃所有东西，包括鸟类、龟、小型哺乳动物、两栖动物、甲壳动物和腐肉，主要食物是鱼类 。成年鳄雀鳝几乎没有天敌，但其卵和幼鱼面临捕食者威胁，且卵具有毒性，人类不应食用 。
2018年，根据《世界自然保护联盟（IUCN）》所示，该物种被评为无危（LC）物种 。鳄雀鳝的白肉片产量高，具有经济价值和食用价值，鳄雀鳝硬鳞可制成装饰品，皮鞣制后可用于制作灯罩、钱包等物品，还可制成菜肴 。
中文名
鳄雀鳝
拉丁学名
Atractosteus spatula
别 名
大雀鳝、福鳄
外文名
alligator gar
国际濒危等级
无危(LC)
界
动物界（Animalia）
门
脊索动物门（Chordata）
纲
辐鳍鱼纲（Actinopterygii）
目
雀鳝目（Holostei）
科
雀鳝科（Lepisosteidae）
属
大雀鳝属（Atractosteus）
种
鳄雀鳝（Atractosteus spatula）
分布区域
主要分布于墨西哥湾沿岸平原和密西西比河流域
命名者及年代
Lacepède, 1803
体 长
约2米~3米之间
体 重
137 至 159 kg
发现与命名
鳄雀鳝首次由法国博物学家贝尔纳·热尔曼·德·拉塞佩德于1803年描述，最初的学名为Lepisosteus spatula，1976年，美国鱼类学家爱德华·奥兰多·韦利将其更名为Atractosteus spatula，以识别雀鳝中存在的两个不同现存属。属名“Atractosteus”来源于希腊词“atractus”，意为“纺锤”，以及“osteus”（希腊语“osteos”），意为“骨质的”。种名“spatula”源自希腊词“spathe”的拉丁衍生词，意思是“任何带有宽阔平坦刀片的工具” 。
形态特征
体型
鳄雀鳝是北美最大的淡水鱼之一，也是最大的鳝鱼种类 ，体长大约为2米~3米之间，重约137千克 ，有记录最重的鳄雀鳝重达159千克 ，外观形似鳄鱼，身体细长，下巴长有许多牙齿 ，上颌有两排尖牙状牙齿。上颌的内排牙齿是腭，比外排牙齿大，牙齿又长又细，呈尖牙状，使这些鱼能够刺穿并抓住猎物 。眼睛较小 。
鳄雀鳝的牙齿外部
鳄雀鳝的牙齿内部
身体
鳄雀鳝的尾鳍呈异尾型的，尾巴不对称。背鳍和臀鳍的位置非常靠后。鳄雀鳝的身体被硬鳞覆盖，这些厚实且互相重叠的鳞片形成了一种类似中世纪锁子甲的保护层。鳄雀鳝保留了螺旋瓣肠，这是消化系统中的一种原始特征，通常与鲨鱼有关。鳄雀鳝还有一个高度血管化的鱼鳔，通过气管与咽喉相连。这使得它们可以吞咽空气，从而进行辅助呼吸。这种能力使鳄雀鳝在水中氧气含量非常低的情况下仍能呼吸 。
鳄雀鳝整体形态
鳄雀鳝的背部呈深橄榄绿色，腹部则逐渐变为黄白色。幼年鳄雀鳝背部中间有一条浅色的条纹，从吻端延伸到背鳍，两侧有细的黑线。体侧有一条带有不规则边界的深色侧带。鳄雀鳝的背鳍、臀鳍和尾鳍上常常有椭圆形的黑斑，而成年的鳄雀鳝身体上则没有斑点 。
栖息环境
鳄雀鳝主要生活在水流较缓的大型河流、湖泊、水库、牛轭湖的淡水环境中，同时也能在河口和海湾的微咸水中找到它们 。鳄雀鳝能耐受高盐度，偶尔会出现在墨西哥湾的咸水区域 。
栖息在水里的鳄雀鳝
分布范围
鳄雀鳝在其原产地的分布范围从佛罗里达州狭长地带开始，经过墨西哥湾沿岸平原和密西西比河流域，向北延伸至俄亥俄河和密苏里河下游，向西南穿过德克萨斯州，一直到墨西哥的韦拉克鲁斯州 。其纬度范围从北纬44°到20°，经度范围为西经101°到82° 。
生活习性
觅食行为
鳄雀鳝是一种凶猛的肉食性鱼类，主要以鱼类为食，但也会捕食鸟类、龟、小型哺乳动物、两栖动物、甲壳动物和腐肉。它们属于机会主义掠食者 ，采用伏击的捕食方式。虽然看起来行动缓慢，但鳄雀鳝能够在短时间内以迅猛的冲刺速度捕获猎物 。通常它们静置于水面以下几英尺处，等待猎物游过，然后通过向前猛冲并左右摆动头部来捕捉猎物，利用两排锋利的牙齿刺穿目标 。
天敌与防御
成年鳄雀鳝体型庞大，身披坚硬的甲壳，在自己的生境中几乎没有天敌。但是，它们的卵和幼鱼却面临着来自各种捕食者的威胁 。鳄雀鳝的卵具有极强的毒性，一度有理论认为这是一种针对天敌的防御机制 。然而，根据1996年的研究结果，这个理论被质疑了。科学家发现，鳄雀鳝的卵对小型哺乳动物和小龙虾有显著的致死效应，但在一项持续14天的实验中，将鱼卵喂食给潜在的天敌——蓝太阳鱼和斑点叉尾鮰，并没有导致这两种鱼的死亡，它们的体重也保持了正常的增长，这表明鳄雀鳝的毒素并没有形成有效的防御机制，只是偶然对小型哺乳动物和小龙虾产生了剧毒效应 。此外，人类也容易受到这种毒素的影响，因此不应该食用鳄雀鳝的鱼卵 。
行为特点
鳄雀鳝的觅食习惯主要是夜间活动，但无论是白天还是夜晚，它们都有可能选择在漂浮的木头、碎片或悬垂的树木下静止不动。尽管它们有时会被观察到浮出水面，但具体的原因尚未有确切解释。有一种观点认为，这可能是鳄雀鳝在低溶解氧条件下通过直接呼吸空气来补充氧气。然而，即使在高溶解氧环境中，它们也会这样做，因此这种行为可能不仅仅是为了呼吸，还可能涉及到交流或警告等其他目的 。
在繁殖季节之外，鳄雀鳝是独居的，并且具有强烈的领地意识 。随着它们的成长，活动范围也会显著增大。幼年的鳄雀鳝活动范围相对有限，平均只有0.1平方公里。然而，一旦它们成年，平均的活动范围可以扩大到11.7平方公里，显示出它们强大的适应性和生存能力 。
生长繁殖
生长特性
鳄雀鳝是一种生长速度较慢的鱼类，雌性鳄雀鳝通常需要10到14年的时间才能性成熟，当它们成熟时，此时的体长可达到约1.4米。相比之下，雄性的鳄雀鳝在6岁时就能性成熟，此时它们的体长大约是0.95米 。
在鳄雀鳝的生命周期中，5岁之前的生长速度是最快的。然而，随着它们年龄的增长，生长速度会明显放缓。在同一年龄下，雌性的鳄雀鳝通常比雄性的要长27.8厘米 。如果鳄雀鳝想要长到2米的长度，它们往往需要花费大约30年的时间 。雌性通常比雄性寿命更长，它们在野外的寿命可达26至50年 。
德克萨斯州扼流峡谷水库鳄雀鳝0~27岁的生长曲线
上图为德克萨斯州扼流峡谷水库鳄雀鳝0~27岁的生长曲线，横轴为年龄（岁），竖轴为体长（毫米为单位），空心方框为雄鱼，实心圆为雌鱼
Bayou DuLarge地区雌性鳄雀鳝的生长曲线
上图为路易斯安那州中南部Bayou DuLarge地区雌性鳄雀鳝的生长曲线，横轴为年龄（岁），竖轴为体长（毫米为单位）
繁殖方式
鳄雀鳝雌鱼在10至14岁时性成熟，而雄鱼大约在6岁时性成熟 。在其原生范围内，鳄雀鳝每年在4月上旬到6月中旬进行交配产卵，产卵地点通常是在洪水泛滥的回水区和洪泛区 。随着昼长变长、水温升高到20至28摄氏度，并伴随季节性洪水来临，河水漫过河漫滩，淹没陆地植被形成牛轭湖和泥沼，为幼鱼提供保护和营养丰富的栖息地，此时鳄雀鳝会进入杂草丛生的浅滩产卵 。
产卵时，多只雄鱼会聚集在怀卵的雌鱼周围，通过扭动和碰撞摩擦雌鱼鱼体，促使雌鱼产卵。当卵被释放到水中，雄鱼会大量排精，使卵受精 。怀卵量因雌鱼体长而异，随着体长增长而增加，平均怀卵量约为138000枚 。卵呈鲜红色，外层粘稠，附着在水下植被和岩石上开始发育。卵孵化只需几天时间，新孵出的鱼苗在最初几天仍依赖卵黄囊，其吻突下方生有吸盘，用以附着在植被和底质上，保护鱼苗不被水流冲走，直到卵黄囊被完全吸收 。
保护现状
保护级别
2018年，根据《世界自然保护联盟（IUCN）》所示，该物种被评为无危（LC）物种 。
物种现状
鳄雀鳝这种生物的数量并不明确。它们主要生活在美国中南部的一些沼泽地和牛轭湖，以及墨西哥湾附近的微咸水环境中。然而，在它们分布的大部分地区，鳄雀鳝并不常见，有时甚至很难见到。经过长时间的观察和研究，人们发现鳄雀鳝在野外的活动范围和种群数量都在减少，特别是它们的分布区域北部，这种下降的趋势尤为明显，可能已经超过了30% 。
主要威胁
由于捕捞压力、栖息地改变以及积极管理以清除所有鱼类的鱼类被视为害虫，导致了其分布范围内鳄雀鳝的数量减少，包括俄克拉荷马州、德克萨斯州、阿拉巴马州、密西西比州和佛罗里达州 。
此外，该物种受到栖息地丧失和退化的威胁。河流-洪泛平原走廊的碎裂、水库、河道化和城市化等因素很可能影响了鳄雀鳝的种群，特别是随着德克萨斯州人口的增长和用水需求的增加，使河道与后滩产卵和育雏区的连接性减弱，河口盐度增加也影响了栖息地环境。该物种在其分布范围的某些地区也受到娱乐和商业捕捞的威胁 。
保护措施
20世纪，人们曾将鳄雀鳝视为有害物种，大规模捕杀，导致其濒临灭绝的边缘 。然而，20世纪80年代，公众开始充分意识到维持生态系统平衡的重要性，并逐渐意识到鳄雀鳝在生态系统中的重要作用。随着时间的推移，州和联邦资源机构开始为鳄雀鳝提供一定的保护措施 。
鳄雀鳝受到美国《雷斯法案》（Lacey Act）的保护，该法案规定，在州际贸易中运输该物种属于非法行为，从而加强了对其的保护。同时，一些州和联邦资源机构开始监测野外鳄雀鳝种群，并实施外展计划以提高公众对其重要性的认识 。
此外，一些相关部门还进行了将鳄雀鳝作为水产养殖物种进行人工养殖的初步尝试，同时利用人工孵化技术来缓解自然种群数量的减少 。
物种危险
鳄雀鳝作为一种外来物种，已经在中国、土库曼斯坦、新加坡、印度和塞浦路斯等多个国家被发现，这些鳄雀鳝大多是被弃养的宠物被释放到野外 。中国已有十个省市发现了鳄雀鳝，当局正在努力将其清除 。
2020年，中国农业农村部呼吁禁止放生或遗弃主要外来物种，其中就包括鳄雀鳝。2021年，中国农业农村部等相关部门发布了《进一步加强外来物种入侵防控工作方案的通知》，对包括鳄雀鳝在内的10种主要外来水生生物进行全国性普查 。
主要价值
经济价值
鳄雀鳝的数量在其历史分布范围内不断减少，导致需要监测野生种群并规范商业捕捞。鳄雀鳝的白肉片产量高，废弃部分相对于体重比例较小 。历史上，野生鳄雀鳝肉在批发市场的价格波动在每磅1.00美元到2.50美元之间 。超市和专卖店的零售价格则在每磅3.00美元到3.50美元之间 。
此外，鳄雀鳝还可用于小型家庭手工业，专门设计和销售由鳄雀鳝的硬鳞制成的珠宝；一些人将鳄雀鳝皮鞣制成皮革，用于制作灯罩、钱包和其他新奇物品 。
食用及装饰价值
在美国南部，炸鳄雀鳝球、烤鳄雀鳝片和用螃蟹调料煮沸的鳄雀鳝片都是很受欢迎的菜肴 。
鳄雀鳝的硬鳞制成的珠宝

--- SOURCE: 鳄雀鳝_en_wiki.txt ---
Alligator gar
Species of ray-finned fish
Alligator gar
Temporal range: Aquitanian – recent
PreꞒ
Ꞓ
O
S
D
C
P
T
J
K
Pg
N
Alligator gar at Cincinnati Zoo and Botanical Garden
Conservation status
Least Concern (IUCN 3.1)
Scientific classification
Kingdom: Animalia
Phylum: Chordata
Class: Actinopterygii
Clade: Ginglymodi
Order: Lepisosteiformes
Family: Lepisosteidae
Genus: Atractosteus
Species: A. spatula
Binomial name
Atractosteus spatula
(Lacépède, 1803)
Synonyms
Species
Lepisosteus spatulaLacépède 1803
Esox cepedianusShaw 1804
Litholepis adamantinusRafinesque 1818
Atractosteus adamantinus(Rafinesque 1818)
Lepisosteus feroxRafinesque 1820
Atractosteus ferox(Rafinesque 1820)
Lepidosteus chaseiWailes 1854
Lepisosteus berlandieriGirard 1858
Atractosteus luciusDuméril 1870
The alligator gar (Atractosteus spatula) is a euryhalineray-finned fish in the cladeGinglymodi of the infraclassHolostei/hoʊˈlɒstiaɪ/, being most closely related to the bowfins. It is the largest species in the garfamily (Lepisosteidae), and is among the largest freshwater fishes in North America. The fossil record traces its group's existence back to the Early Cretaceous over 100 million years ago. Gars are often referred to as "primitive fishes" or "living fossils", because they have retained some morphological characteristics of their early ancestors, such as a spiral valve intestine, which is also common to the digestive system of sharks, and the ability to breathe in both air and water. Their common name was derived from their resemblance to the American alligator, particularly their broad snouts and long, sharp teeth. It is suggested that an alligator gar can grow up to 10 ft (3.0 m) in length.
The body of an alligator gar is torpedo-shaped, usually brown or olive colored, fading to a lighter gray or yellow ventral surface. In very rare occurrences, they can also be black, seen in gars that have a high level of melanin. Their scales are not like the scales of other fishes; rather, they are ganoid scales, which are bone-like, rhomboidal-shaped scales, often with serrated edges, and covered by an enamel-like substance. Ganoid scales are nearly impenetrable, and are excellent protection against predation. Unlike other gar species, the upper jaw of an alligator gar has a dual row of large, sharp teeth that are used to impale and hold prey. Alligator gar are stalking, ambush predators, primarily piscivores, but they also ambush and eat waterfowl and small mammals they find floating on the water's surface.
Populations of alligator gar have been extirpated from much of their historic range as a result of habitat destruction, indiscriminate culling, and unrestricted harvests. Populations are now located primarily in the southern portions of the United States extending into Mexico. They are considered euryhaline because they can adapt to varying salinities, ranging from freshwater lakes and swamps to brackish marshes, estuaries, and bays along the Gulf of Mexico.
For nearly a half century, alligator gar were considered "trash fish", or a "nuisance species" detrimental to sport fisheries, and were targeted for elimination by state and federal authorities in the United States. The 1980s brought a better understanding of the ecological balance necessary to sustain an ecosystem, and an awareness that the alligator gar is an important element of the ecosystems they inhabit was eventually understood. Over time, alligator gar were afforded some protection by state and federal resource agencies. They are also protected under the Lacey Act, which makes transporting certain species of fish in interstate commerce illegal when in violation of state law or regulation. Several state and federal resource agencies are monitoring populations in the wild, and have initiated outreach programs to educate the public. Alligator gar are being cultured in ponds, pools, raceways, and tanks by federal hatcheries for mitigation stocking, by universities for research purposes, and in Mexico for consumption.
Anatomy
Preserved display of an alligator gar head
Alligator gar maneuvering with pectoral fins in large zoo aquarium
Alligator gar are the largest species in the gar family, and among the largest freshwater fishes found in North America. Mature alligator gar commonly measure 6 ft (1.8 m) in length, and weigh over 100 lb (45 kg). However, anecdotal reports suggest they can grow up to 10 ft (3 m) in length, and weigh as much as 350 lb (159 kg). The largest alligator gar officially recorded was inadvertently caught in the net of fisherman Kenny Williams of Vicksburg, Mississippi, while he was fishing the oxbow lakes of the Mississippi River on February 14, 2011. Williams was pulling up his net on Lake Chotard, expecting to find buffalo fish, but instead discovered a large alligator gar tangled in his net. The gar was
8 ft 5+1⁄4 in (2.572 m) long, weighed 327 lb (148 kg), and its girth was 47 in (120 cm). According to wildlife officials, the fish was estimated to be between 50 and 70 years old; one report estimated the gar's age to be at least 95. Williams donated it to the Mississippi Museum of Natural Science in Jackson, where it will remain on display.
All gars have torpedo-shaped bodies, but some distinguishing characteristics of adult alligator gar include their large size; heavy bodies; broad heads; short, broad snouts; large, sharp teeth; and a double row of teeth on their upper jaws. They are usually brown or olive colored, fading to a lighter gray or yellow ventral surface. The dorsal and anal fins are positioned toward the back of their bodies, and their caudal fins are abbreviate heterocercal, or nonsymmetrical.
Physiology
Gill of a juvenile gar
Alligator gar have gills, but unlike many species of fish, they also have a highly vascularizedswim bladder that can act as a lung, supplementing gill respiration. The bladder not only provides buoyancy, but also enables them to breathe in air. This capability allows alligator gar to inhabit stagnant and/or insufficiently aerated bodies of water that are poorly oxygenated or hypoxic, in which most other fishes would die of suffocation due to a lack of dissolved oxygen within the water. The swim bladder is connected to their fore gut by a small pneumatic duct, which allows them to breathe or gulp air when they break the water's surface, an action seen quite frequently on lakes in the Southern United States during the hot summer.
The scales of alligator gar are not like the scales of other fishes, which have flexible elasmoid scales; gar bodies are protected by inflexible and articulated ganoid scales that are rhomboidal-shaped, often with serrated edges, and composed of a tough inner layer of bone and hard outer layer of ganoin, which is essentially homologous to tooth enamel, making them nearly impenetrable.
Taxonomy and evolution
Lacépède first described the alligator gar in 1803. The original name was Lepisosteus spatula, but was later changed by E.O. Wiley in 1976 to Atractosteus spatula to recognize two distinct taxa of gars. Synonyms of Atractosteus spatula include: Lesisosteus ferox (Rafinesque 1820), and Lepisosteus spatula (Lacepede 1803). Fossils from the order Lepisosteiformes have been collected in Europe from the Cretaceous to Oligocene periods; in Africa and India from the Cretaceous; and in North America from the Cretaceous to recent times. The Lepisosteidae are the only extant family of gars with seven species, all located in North and Central America. The fossil record traces the existence of gars such as the Alligator gar back over 100 million years ago to the Early Cretaceous period. Despite being a highly evolved species, alligator gar are often referred to as "primitive fishes" or "living fossils", because they have retained a few morphological characteristics of their earliest ancestors, with seemingly few to no apparent changes, such as: a spiral valve intestine, which is also common to the digestive system of sharks; an abbreviate heterocercal tail; and a swim bladder lung for breathing in both air and water.
Feeding behavior
Alligator gar are stalking, ambush predators.
Alligator gar are relatively passive, seemingly sluggish solitary fish, but voracious ambush predators. They are opportunistic night predators and are primarily piscivores, but gar will also ambush and eat water fowl, other birds, turtles, and small mammals that may be floating on the surface. Their method of ambush is to float a few feet below the surface, and wait for unsuspecting prey to swim within reach. The gar will then lunge forward, and with a sweeping motion, grab their prey, impaling it on their double rows of sharp teeth.
Diet studies have shown alligator gar to be opportunistic piscivores, and even scavengers depending on the availability of their preferred food source. They occasionally ingest sport fish, but the majority of stomach content studies suggest they feed predominately on forage fishes, such as gizzard shad, as well as invertebrates and water fowl. However, brackish water populations of alligator gar are known to feed heavily on blue crabs, in addition to fish such as the hardhead catfish (Ariopsis felis). Diet studies have also revealed fishing tackle and boat-engine parts in their stomachs.
Spawning
As with most ancestral species, alligator gar are long-lived, and sexually late maturing. Most females do not reach sexual maturity until after their first decade of life, while males reach sexual maturity in half that time. The conditions must be precise for a successful spawning to occur. Preparation for spawning begins in the spring with the extended photoperiod and rising water temperatures, but flooding is also necessary to trigger the event. When rivers rise and spread over the floodplain, they create oxbow lakes and sloughs, and inundate terrestrial vegetation, which in turn provides protection and a nutrient-rich habitat for larval fish and fry. Once the water temperature has reached 68 to 82 °F (20 to 28 °C), and all the other criteria are met, gar move into the grassy, weed-laden shallows to spawn.
Actual spawning occurs when males gather around gravid females, and begin writhing, twisting, bumping into, and slithering over the tops of females, an activity which triggers the release of eggs. Males release clouds of milt to fertilize the eggs as they are released into the water column. The sticky eggs then attach to submerged vegetation, and development begins. Only a few days are needed for the eggs to hatch into larval fish, and another 10 days or so for the larval fish to detach from the vegetation, and start moving about as young fry. Egg production is variable, and believed to be dependent on the size of the female. A common formula used for predicting the number of eggs a female can produce is 4.1 eggs/gram of body weight, which gives an average of about 150,000 eggs per spawn. The eggs of alligator gar are bright red and poisonous to humans if ingested.
Distribution
Alligator gar caught in Moon Lake, Mississippi, March 1910
Natural range
Alligator gar inhabit a wide variety of aquatic habitats, but most are found in the Southern United States in reservoirs and lakes, in the backwaters of lowland rivers, and in the brackish waters of estuaries, bayous, and bays. Gars occur southward along the Gulf Coast of Texas, into Tamaulipas and northern Veracruz, Mexico; however, records from Nicaragua and Costa Rica are considered "suspect and refuted". They have occasionally been seen in the Gulf of Mexico. In Texas and Louisiana, large gars are commonly seen breaking the surface in reservoirs, bayous, and brackish marshes. They are found throughout the lower Mississippi River Valley and Gulf Coast states of the Southern United States and Mexico as far south as Veracruz, and encompassing the following states in the US: Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, Kentucky, Mississippi, Alabama, Tennessee, Arkansas, Missouri, Illinois, and Florida. Reports suggest alligator gar were once numerous throughout much of their northern range, but valid sightings today are rare, and may occur once every few years. Records of historical distribution indicate alligator gar once inhabited regions as far north as central Kansas, Nebraska, Ohio, Iowa, and west-central Illinois, where they are now listed as extirpated. The most northerly verified catch was in Meredosia, Illinois, in 1922. In 2016, there were efforts to reintroduce alligator gar between Tennessee and Illinois, as part of an effort to control invasiveAsian carp.
Outside natural range
Alligator gar is an invasive species in Mainland China, where it can be purchased as an exoticpet fish. Due to its large size and armored scales, it has few natural predators even within its natural range, and its poisonous eggs may pose a passive threat to other fish. The fish has been sighted in eight provinces, and authorities have worked to remove it.
In November 2008, a broadhead gar, genus Atractosteus, measuring 5.2 to 6.4 ft (1.6 to 2.0 m) was caught in the Caspian Sea north of Esenguly, Turkmenistan, by two officials of Turkmenistan Fishery Protection.
On September 4, 2009, a 3 ft 3 in (0.99 m) alligator gar was found in Tak Wah Park in Tsuen Wan, Hong Kong. Over the next two days, at least 16 other alligator gar, the largest measuring 4.9 ft (1.5 m), were found in ponds within public parks in Hong Kong. Nearby residents reported the alligator gar had been released into the ponds by aquarium hobbyists, and had lived there for several years. However, after a complaint made by a citizen who falsely identified alligator gar as crocodiles, the use of terms like "horrible man-eating fish" had begun appearing in the headlines of some major local newspapers. Officials with Leisure and Cultural Services in Tak Wah Park removed all the alligator gar from the ponds because they were concerned the large, carnivorous fish might harm children. Not unusually, the large, sharp teeth and outward appearance of alligator gar can precipitate unreasonable fear in those unfamiliar with the species. Sensationalized reports have contributed to the misconception of predatory attacks by alligator gar on humans, though none of the reports have been confirmed.
On January 21, 2011, an alligator gar measuring 4 ft 11 in (1.50 m) was caught in a canal in Pasir Ris, Singapore, by two recreational fishermen. The fish was taken to a nearby pond, where the owner confirmed it was an alligator gar rather than an arapaima, as the men had initially thought.
Anecdotal reports have been made of alligator gar captured in various parts of India, but are believed to be the result of incidental releases by aquarium hobbyists and the like. In August 2015, an alligator gar was found entangled in cloth inside a well in Dadar, where it had been living for quite some time. It was rescued by animal activists and returned to the well unharmed. In June 2016, a 3.5-ft alligator gar was caught from Subhash Sarovar Lake in Kolkata. Other incidents over the years have been random, ranging from captures in coastal waters during environmental assessments to captures in private ponds.
On June 27, 2020, an alligator gar measuring 112 cm (3 ft 8in) was reported dead on the shore of Gonyeli Baraji reservoir, North Cyprus. Specialists from Cyprus Wildlife Research Institute collected the fish, and explained its species to be alligator gar (Atractosteus spatula). It is suspected that the fish had been released recently, and could not cope with the environment and died; however, it could be that the fish was resident there for years. A necropsy will be applied to find out more.
Similarly, on May 12, 2023, an alligator gar measuring less than 2 feet was caught during a deweeding process in Dal Lake of Kashmir near the Sher-i-Kashmir International Conference Centre (SKICC), sparking concerns about potential effects on the ecosystem.
In Thailand, an alligator gar have long been considered an imported aquarium fish. In reports of their discovery in various natural water sources, believed that they were released by aquarists. In 2024, they were reported in the Mekong River in Chiang Rai Province, a natural border between Thailand, Laos and Myanmar, alongside Siberian sturgeon.
Human uses
Choke Canyon Reservoir controlled gar harvest, 1995
On-site processing by commercial fishermen
Early history
Native Americans in the South and Caribbean peoples used the alligator gar's ganoid scales for arrow heads, breastplates, and as shielding to cover plows. Early settlerstanned the skins to make a strong, durable leather to cover their wooden plows, make purses, and craft various other items. Gar oil was also used by the people of Arkansas as a repellent for buffalo gnats.
For nearly half a century, alligator gar were considered "trash fish", or "nuisance species" by state and federal authorities who targeted them for elimination to protect gamefish populations, and to prevent alleged attacks on humans, a claim that remains unsubstantiated with the exception of occasional injuries sustained from captured alligator gar thrashing around on the decks of boats. Fishermen participated in the slaughter of thousands of alligator gar believing they were providing a great service. In 1992, PBS affiliate KUHT channel 8 became the presenting station for a public-outreach program that documented the life history cycle of alligator gar titled The Alligator Gar: Predator or Prey?. It was the first documentary ever produced and televised nationally about alligator gar at a time when it was still being referred to as a trash fish. The half-hour program ran for three years as part of an educational series titled "Exotic and Unusual Fishes", produced by Earthwave Society. It first aired in primetime during the 1992 July sweeps, and drew a 2.8 rating/4 share, making it the number-one rated program of the evening for several PBS affiliates. A decade passed before any significant action was taken to protect and preserve the remaining populations of alligator gar in the United States. Among the first to enact restoration and management practices was the Missouri Department of Conservation in partnership with Tennessee, Arkansas, Kentucky, Illinois, Alabama, Mississippi, Texas, Oklahoma, and Louisiana.
Sport fish
A 6 ft (1.8 m) 129 lb (59 kg) alligator gar caught in Texas, 2004
The long-time public perception of alligator gar as trash fish or a nuisance species has changed, with increasing national and international attention on the species as a sport fish, which some have attributed to features on popular television shows. Oklahoma, Texas, Arkansas, Mississippi, and Louisiana allow regulated sport fishing of alligator gar. Texas has one of the best remaining fisheries for alligator gar, and in concert with its efforts to maintain a viable fishery, imposed a one-per-day bag limit on them in 2009. The Texas state record, and world record for the largest alligator gar caught on rod and reel, is 283 lb (128.37 kg), taken by Arthur Weston on September 2, 2023, from Sam Rayburn Lake in Texas. Alligator gar are also quite popular among bowfishers because of their large size, trophy potential, and fighting ability. The Texas state bowfishing record was set in 2001 by Marty McClellan with a 290 lb (130 kg) alligator gar from the Trinity River. The all-tackle record was a 302 lb (137 kg) alligator gar caught on a trotline in 1953 by T.C. Pierce Jr. In 1991, fishing guide Kirk Kirkland anecdotally reported catching an alligator gar measuring 9 ft 6 in (2.90 m) on rod and line from the Trinity River.
Commercialization and aquaculture
Market display of gar fillets
Gar fillets grilled and boiled
Ganoid scale jewelry
Ganoid scale earrings
Declining populations of alligator gar throughout their historic range have resulted in the need to monitor wild populations and regulate commercial harvests. Alligator gar have a high yield of white-meat fillets and a small percentage of waste relative to body weight. Fried gar balls, grilled filets, and fillets boiled in water with crab boil are popular dishes in the southern United States. There is also a small cottage industry that designs and sells jewelry made from the ganoid scales of alligator gar; some tan the hides to produce leather for making lamp shades, purses and a host of other novelty items. Historically, the price of wild gar meat sold commercially to wholesale distributors has fluctuated between $1.00/lb up to $2.50/lb. Retail prices in supermarkets and specialty stores have ranged from $3.00 to $3.50/lb.
Atractosteus gars, including alligator gar, tropical gars, and Cuban gars, are considered good candidates for aquaculture, particularly in developing regions, where their rapid growth, disease resistance, easy adaptation to artificial feeds as juveniles, and ability to tolerate low water quality are essential. Their ability to breathe in both air and water eliminates the need for costly aeration systems and other technology commonly used in aquaculture. Despite being considered "trash" or "rough" fish in most of North America, in regions of Central America and the southern United States they have become a popular food fish. Maintaining wild populations of gars has grown in importance to maintaining sustainable aquaculture for "local food production, the aquarium trade, and conservation of biodiversity".
Aquaria
Despite the large size alligator gar can attain, they are kept as aquarium fish, though many fish labeled as "alligator gar" in the aquarium trade are actually smaller species. Alligator gar require a very large aquarium or pond, and ample resources for them to thrive in captivity. They are also a popular fish for public aquaria and zoos. In many areas, keeping alligator gar as pets is illegal, but they occasionally show up in fish stores. Alligator gar are highly prized and sought after for private aquaria, particularly in Japan until it was prohibited in 2018. According to some reports, large alligator gar could fetch as much as US$40,000 in what some consider the "Japanese black market". In June 2011, three men from Florida and Louisiana were indicted on charges of illegally removing wild alligator gar from the Trinity River in Texas, and attempting to ship them to Japan for private collectors. The indictments resulted from an undercover sting operation by special agents with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department, and the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission. The charges included violations of three separate provisions of the Lacey Act, specifically conspiracy to submit a false label for fish transported in interstate commerce, conspiracy to transport fish in interstate commerce in violation of state law or regulation, and conspiracy to transport and sell fish in interstate commerce in violation of state law or regulation. Two of the conspirators entered guilty pleas to one count, and the government dropped the other two charges against them. A third conspirator went to trial on all three counts, was acquitted on one count, and found guilty on two. The district court sentenced him to serve nine months in prison followed by one year of supervised release. The case was appealed, and on April 15, 2014, the appellate court affirmed the judgment of the district court.

--- SOURCE: 鳄雀鳝_zh_wiki.txt ---
鳄雀鳝
全部展开
鳄雀鳝
化石时期：23–0 Ma
PreЄ
Є
O
S
D
C
P
T
J
K
Pg
N
保护状况
无危（IUCN 3.1）
科学分类
界： 动物界 Animalia
门： 脊索动物门 Chordata
纲： 辐鳍鱼纲 Actinopteri
目： 雀鳝目 Lepisosteiformes
科： 雀鳝科 Lepisosteidae
属： 大雀鳝属Atractosteus
种： 鳄雀鳝 A. spatula
二名法
Atractosteus spatula
([贝尔纳·热尔曼·德·拉塞佩德
异名
展开
Species
Lepisosteus spatulaLacépède 1803
Esox cepedianusShaw 1804
Litholepis adamantinusRafinesque 1818
Atractosteus adamantinus(Rafinesque 1818)
Lepisosteus feroxRafinesque 1820
Atractosteus ferox(Rafinesque 1820)
Lepidosteus chaseiWailes 1854
Lepisosteus berlandieriGirard 1858
Atractosteus luciusDuméril 1870
鳄雀鳝（学名：Atractosteus spatula），又名鳄雀鳝、大雀鳝，台湾命名为纺锤骨雀鳝，俗称鳄鱼火箭、福鳄，是一种很原始的辐鳍鱼。它的名字来自它跟鳄鱼一样的短吻和两排匕首般锋利的牙齿。背部呈褐色或橄榄色，腹部则较为浅色。鳞片是菱形硬鳞，美洲印第安人有时会拿来作为宝石。
福鳄是雀鳝目中体型最大的以及是北美洲最大的淡水鱼之一，身长达8至10英尺（2.4至3.0米）、体重至少200至350磅（91至159千克）。
特征
鳄雀鳝的吻。
鳄雀鳝的身体覆盖着一层菱形釉层的硬磷（类似牙齿的珐琅质），像是穿着钢盔铁甲。雌鱼比雄鱼略大，是现存雀鳝目中体型最大的一种。鱼身呈长筒形，头部宽阔，吻部短而宽，密布青灰色菱形鳞片，带有暗黑色斑纹，吻部前突，上下颚密布利齿，形似鳄口，因此得名，体色通常为棕色或橄榄色，腹部则呈现浅灰色或黄色。背鳍和臀鳍位于身体后部，尾鳍短且不对称。跟它们的大部分近亲不同，鳄雀鳝能在缺氧环境中把空气吞到鳔中呼吸，所以可以在离开水的情况下存活长达两小时。
分布及栖息地
由于栖息地破坏、滥捕滥杀和无限制捕捞，鳄雀鳝在其历史分布范围内的大部分地区已经灭绝。如今，它们的族群主要分布在美国南部，并延伸至墨西哥境内。鳄雀鳝被认为是广盐性鱼类，因为它们能够适应不同的盐度，从淡水湖泊和沼泽到墨西哥湾沿岸的咸淡水沼泽、河口和海湾；然而在亚洲多国已见其踪影。该物种在中华人民共和国被视为外来入侵物种；在泰国亦有发现这物种。
行为
繁殖
鳄雀鳝寿命较长，性成熟较晚。雄鱼6岁左右性成熟，雌鱼则长达11年，寿命26至50年，最高纪录75年。成功的产卵需要特定的条件。产卵的准备始于春季，随着日照时间的延长和水温的升高，但洪水也是触发产卵的必要条件。当河流上涨并淹没洪氾区时，会形成牛轭湖和沼泽，并淹没陆生植被，从而为鱼苗提供保护和富含营养的栖息地。一旦水温达到 20 至 28 摄氏度（68 至 82 华氏度），并且所有其他条件都满足，鳄雀鳝就会游到长满水草和杂草的浅水区产卵。鳄雀鳝每年5至8月繁殖产卵，雌鱼每次产下14至20万枚卵，但只有极少数侥幸躲过天敌成功孵化，卵呈淡绿色，粘附于水草或砾石上，孵化期约6至8天。
食性
由于什么都吃的缘故，鳄雀鳝栖息的水域内很少有其它鱼类生存，影响渔民收获，各地政府为了保护水体生态而鼓励消灭捕猎此鱼，使得许多原本许多栖息水域，此鱼都已灭绝。只是这种鱼极难捕获，虽然贪吃的鳄雀鳝很容易上钩，但它的满嘴利齿能咬断钢丝做成的鱼线，而且上钩后拼命挣扎。
鳄雀鳝被指有凶残攻击人类的倾向，大部分发生在路易斯安娜州的庞恰特雷恩湖中。《新奥尔良报》曾发表文章称福鳄对人类生命的威胁大于“食人鲨”。但是事实上并没有多少证据表明这种鱼类确实对人类具有攻击性。
分类历史
起先所有雀鳝目的物种都只分类在雀鳝属中。后来，康斯坦丁·萨米埃尔·拉菲内克-施马尔茨于1818年替福鳄起了Atractosteus adamantinus的学名，并编入大雀鳝属中，不过一路以来，大雀鳝属都被认为是雀鳝属的异名。于1976年，大雀鳝属才正式被确认。